Companies Act 2016: Transforming Malaysia’s Corporate Landscape
The Companies Act 2016 (Act 777) (“CA 2016”) came
into force on 31 January 2017. This new CA 2016
replaced the 1965 Act which has been in operation for
over 50 years. The workings toward CA 2016 took
over a decade’s worth of review, consultation and
discussion with regulatory, professional and industry
bodies.
The implementation of CA 2016 is intended to
increase the ease of doing business in Malaysia.
Incorporation procedures for companies will be
simplified. This in turn will bring significant cost
savings for businesses through the creation of a more
business-friendly environment.
The CA 2016 is to be implemented in stages. The first
phase of the CA 2016 has commenced since 31
January 2017.
Section 241 relating to the requirement for company
secretaries to register with the Registrar, and Division
8 of Part III relating to corporate rescue mechanisms
on a corporate voluntary arrangement and judicial
management have yet to be affected.
Also enforced on January 31 was the Companies
Regulations 2017 to support the implementation of
the Companies Act. With this, companies have a
mechanism to lodge documents with the Companies
Commission of Malaysia (CCM) and their related
fees.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Opportunities in Flexible Hybrid Electronics Technology
Almost every month we read or hear about breakthroughs in new
technologies or devices that are reshaping the way we live to how
businesses are conducted. This is changing the industrial landscape
where traditional industries are facing extinction as new industries
emerge.
Given the dynamism in the world today, technology is becoming a lot
more flexible. In a global forecast by CSS Insight, wearable devices such
as smartwatches, fitness trackers and virtual reality (VR) headsets, are
set to grow with 411 million smart wearable devices worth USD34 billion
will be sold in 2020.
Underlying this new era of electronics is the flexible hybrid electronics (FHE) technology. FHE has the
ability to conform to more organic shapes or be stretched across objects, yet maintaining its electronic
capability. These characteristics, when coupled with rapid advancement in data analytics and artificial
intelligence, allow it to be incorporated into a variety of consumer and industrial products. This
technology is described as bringing electronics ‘out of the box’ and integrating them directly into
wearable manufactured items and structures.
FHE is made possible by using conductive
and active inks to print ultra-thin silicon
components on to stretchable substrates. The
combination of designs with printed
components and advanced Complementary
Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS)-based
components gives rise to the term ‘hybrid’.
The diagram of a simplified flexible, hybrid
electronic system illustrates the concept that
some devices are printed, placed or
laminated onto flexible substrates.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

This composition allows devices to process data while using the most cost-appropriate componentry for
the device, thus opening new possibilities for lightweight, low-cost, flexible, stretchable and efficient
smart products with a variety of applications. Potential areas which would benefit from the FHE
technology include health monitoring wearables for lifestyle and fitness, more accurate and efficient
healthcare management, soft robotics for the elderly, sensor monitoring for structures, aircraft or
automotive, as well as light-weight rugged sensors for harsh environments.
Despite much progress in this field, it is still a challenge to obtain new materials, processing equipment
and design to bring many of the conceived products into reality. Many of these advancements reach
across previously unrelated industry segments. For example, printing electronic inks brings together
traditional techniques from the paper printing industry, chemical formulations from the paint industry,
and micro and even nano-scale lithography from Integrated Circuit (IC) manufacturing.
MIDA is ramping up efforts particularly in developing the ecosystem to cater to the growing needs of
businesses that arise from this new wave of industrial revolution. Within the context of FHE technology,
we welcome more investments in core manufacturing focus areas such as:
 FHE materials scale-up
 Thinned device processing
 Device/sensor integrated printing and packaging
 System design tools
 Reliability testing and modeling
In line with the new wave of industrial revolution, MIDA continues to encourage our stakeholders to stay
updated with the latest cutting edge technological developments that can help us innovate and stay
competitive. Ultimately we seek to align Malaysia to global trends towards more stronger and
sustainable growth.
Source: NextFlex, FlexTech, CMTC and Semi

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Healthcare Sector in Malaysia Continues to Grow
Despite Volatile Global Economy
Malaysia continues to grow its reputation as a preferred health and medical destination, despite the
challenging global economic situation. According to the Malaysian Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC)
records, revenue generated from medical tourism surged from RM527.2 million in 2011 to RM1.1 billion
in 2016. In 2017, the industry is expected to achieve its target revenue of RM1.3 billion. The number of
healthcare travellers in Malaysia has also increased rapidly from 64,300 in 2011 to 92,100 in 2016,
mainly from Indonesia, China, India, Japan, United Kingdom and Australia.
This positive growth of medical tourism is in line with the Government’s efforts to promote healthcare
travel, and is contributed by undivided commitment of key industry players in providing top notch
services. The two-tier healthcare system in Malaysia comprising of both a government-run
universal healthcare system and a co-existing private healthcare system has supported the growth of
the healthcare sector in the country. The Government continues to encourage industry players to
expand its services and networks either by establishing new private hospitals or undertaking
expansion, modernisation or refurbishment projects, which increases building capacity and capability
for internationalisation.
Due to the established private healthcare industry that consists of hospitals with advance technology
and the country’s strong multilingual population, Malaysia’s healthcare services are well recognised.
The top five major treatments sought by foreign patients in Malaysia are general screening, oncology,
ophthalmology, cardiology and cosmetic surgery with an average spending value of RM1,120 per
patient.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

To further boost medical tourism in Malaysia, healthcare industry players have formulated several
strategies. These include collaborating with local travel agencies by providing wellness packages to
potential tourists and enhance the outreach programmes to create brand awareness. These measures
are further supported by the country’s experienced and internationally recognised doctors and
well-trained medical support staff. They provide world standard healthcare services to customers from
every corner of the world.
On top of that, most of the major healthcare providers have obtained accreditation from the Joint
Commission International (JCI), the worldwide leading accreditation body in improving the quality of
healthcare, which is considered as the gold standard in global healthcare. There are currently 13 JCI
accredited hospitals in Malaysia.
With increasing demand over the years, most private healthcare providers are expanding their facilities
to cater to an ever growing number of patients. For instance, KPJ Ampang Puteri Specialist Hospital
has now embarked on an expansion plan by constructing a new 15-storey hospital building that
comprises clinic suites, a radiotherapy and chemotherapy centre, operating theatres, ample car parks
and its new administration office with an expected cost of RM175 million. The new hospital building is
also anticipated to be equipped with 145 new patient beds that will be categorised into premier,
single-bedded and double-bedded rooms.
The Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA) takes the lead in promoting investments in
the healthcare industry to ensure a sustainable ecosystem exists for the industry to thrive. From 2012
to 2016, a total of 60 private healthcare facilities projects were approved with investments of RM7.0
billion, generating 10,650 job opportunities. MIDA continues to work closely with MHTC in promoting
medical tourism by conducting visits, outreach programmes and meetings with potential private hospi-
tals to highlight investment opportunities in medical tourism.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Timely To Grow Local Businesses By Listing On Bursa Malaysia
In conjunction with its 50th Anniversary, MIDA
collaborated with Bursa Malaysia to organise a forum
themed ‘Grow Your Business, List on Bursa’ at its HQ
on 11 May 2017. The half-day forum showcased
insights on the benefits, processes and procedures
involved in creating a successful initial public offering
(IPO). Also present at the forum were Datuk N.
Rajendran, Deputy CEO of MIDA and Ms Selvarany
Rasiah, Chief Commercial Officer of Bursa Malaysia.
In his keynote address, YB Datuk Haji Ahmad Maslan,
MITI Deputy Minister said, “This forum is certainly in
line with the Government’s on-going efforts to increase
the competitiveness of our domestic players. As the
world is being shaped by new and emerging
technologies, domestic players need to align
themselves by adopting new ways of doing business,
such as automation, robotics and other smart
technologies.
This will require businesses to invest in new
technologies, upskilling of talents as well as research & development activities. As such, this
collaboration between MIDA and Bursa Malaysia is timely to encourage local companies to look
beyond depending on Government’s facilities and grow their own resources towards sustainable
growth.”
While Datuk N. Rajendran further added that based on MIDA’s records, there are about 300 private
companies from various sectors that meet the prerequisite for listing on Bursa Malaysia’s Main Board.
These are companies that have registered uninterrupted profit after tax (PAT) of more than RM20
million for a period of 3-5 full financial years. It is vital for such companies to make their way to the
boards of the stock exchanges that will enable them to tap into more capital that could be utilised for
further expansion in line with the Industry 4.0.
BMW Group Malaysia Officially Opens Its Regional Parts Distribution Centre in Malaysia
“The opening of the new Regional Parts
Distribution Centre is very timely in capturing the
growing market opportunities in this region,
especially with our existing strategic free trade
agreements and the upcoming Regional
Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP),
as it will increase market accessibility across its
member countries. As Malaysia continues to
develop its infrastructure, productivity and
innovation capabilities in every state, we are
proud that BMW has recognised Johor to be a
strategic location to meet its burgeoning regional
demands,” said Dato’ Azman Mahmud, CEO of
MIDA at the opening of BMW Group’s Regional
Parts Distribution Centre in Senai, Johor on 11
May 2017.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

“This new facility, does not only reflect on the Group’s commitment to boost the regional
competitiveness of our nation, but is providing greater employment opportunities and businesses for
Malaysians. So far, they have engaged 55 local service providers with an annual contract value of
more than RM25 million. The exchange of technological know-how will surely contribute to developing
a more innovative and talented workforce,” he further added.
With an investment of over RM 130 million, the new BMW Group Regional Parts Distribution Centre is
one of the largest BMW facility of its kind in the Asia Pacific region and will support over 23 countries in
the region as a logistics warehouse and parts distribution centre for after sales parts, components and
lifestyle merchandises for the brands BMW, MINI and BMW. It is also expected to create 120 new job
opportunities.
More than 150 SMEs from the East Coast Region to Benefit from MIDA’s Regional Supply Chain
Conference in Pahang
More than 150 participants from various MNCs,
large local companies and SMEs attended the
Supply Chain Conference for the East Coast
Region held in Kuantan, Pahang on 22 May 2017.
The conference was officiated by YAB Dato’ Sri
Amar Diraja Haji Adnan Haji Yaakob, Chief
Minister of Pahang with the presence of Datuk N.
Rajendran, Deputy CEO of MIDA and Dato’ Haji
Mas’ut A. Samah, Chairman of the Federation of
Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) Eastern Branch.
In his speech, the Chief Minister of Pahang said,
“Among the east coast region, Pahang is the
second highest recipient of implemented
investments in the manufacturing sector after
Terengganu. Recognising that a strong and
comprehensive ecosystem promotes greater flow of trade and investment, the state government is
stepping up our infrastructure development to ensure effective and efficient service delivery.”
While Datuk N. Rajendran further added that, “The East Coast Region contributed RM3.5 billion to the
total approved investments in the manufacturing sector in 2016. More than half or 61% of these
investments were from foreign sources, while the balance of RM1.4 billion were from domestic
sources. MIDA would like to encourage the industry players to take advantage of this platform and
explore outsourcing opportunities in the multinational companies’ supply chain and also emulate these
companies’ best practices, particularly in adopting the Fourth Industrial Revolution or Industry 4.0.”
MIDA & MPMA Jointly Collaborates on the 8th MPMA International Plastics Conference 2017
“The plastics and plastic products industry is a dynamic and vibrant growth sector within the Malaysian
manufacturing sector. Over the years, the plastics industry has been supporting the growth of related
sectors as well as contributing to the emergence of new markets throughout the value chain. Given the
encouraging trends in the plastics industry, companies here can seize the growing opportunities by
improving its competitiveness in terms of product development, manufacturing processes and business
models.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

With the established industry ecosystem in Malaysia, it would be beneficial for companies to leverage
on Malaysia’s excellent competitive advantages and further develop their capabilities,” said the YB
Datuk Seri Ong Ka Chuan, second Minister of International Trade and Industry at the 8th MPMA
International Plastics Conference 2017 held on 23 May 2017 at Holiday Inn Kuala Lumpur Glenmarie.
MIDA and the Malaysian Plastics Manufacturers Association (MPMA) collaborated for the first time to
bring together the international conference which was initially organised in 2002. The two-day seminar
among others featured two plenary sessions on ‘Global Trends and Future Outlook’ and ‘Boosting the
Plastics Industry for the Next Decade’, as well as various sessions on technological advances. Also
present were YBhg Datuk Noraini S Talib, Vice-President of MPMA and Mr. Eddie Fong,
Secretary-General of MPMA and En. Ahmad Khairudin, Executive Director of
MIDA.
Moving towards greater innovation
MIDA focusing more on quality investments to spur growth
Keeping the well-tested method
New officers must have passion to develop organization, says Azman
MIDA will continue to be relevant in next 50 years

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Malaysia is top muslim travel spot
Malaysia 9th preferred destination for education
IMF lauds Malaysia’s macroeconomic policies
Bandar Malaysia to boost economy
RM296b in investments, 1.38 million jobs
ASEAN, Asia can expect more investment
Increased Iskandar role as EU firms’ gateway to S-E Asia
A new reality in the global economy
HSR to boost trade between Malaysia and Singapore
Notion Vtec on expansion spree
API to develop new product for export
Supermax to launch Aveo in Malaysia
Eye scanning technology to boost Inari’s growth
UMW to ramp up Toyota car output
Nestle puts Malaysians first in hiring process
Tie-up with Lazada to boost Pos Malaysia
Island hospital plans RM2b medical city
Seacera to buy warehouse in Melaka for RM16.9mil
Sapangar Bay expansion to commerce next year