BANK
NEGARA
MALAYSIA
Annual
Report
Annual Report


Statutory Requirements
In accordance with section 13 of the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009, Bank Negara
Malaysia hereby publishes and has transmitted to the Minister of Finance a copy of this
Annual Report 2025 together with a copy of its Financial Statements for the year ended
31 December 2025, which have been examined and certified by the Auditor General.
The Financial Statements will also be published in the Gazette.
For the purposes of section 115 of the Development Financial Institutions Act 2002,
the annual report on the administration of the Development Financial Institutions Act 2002
and other related matters for the year ended 31 December 2025 is incorporated in this
Annual Report.
Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour
Chairperson
Board of Directors
31 March 2026


Contents
Foreword
Our Role
Promoting Monetary Stability 11
Feature Article: Beyond the Headline: Inflation through the Eyes of Households 19
Promoting Financial Stability 25
Feature Article: Bridging the Gap: The Path to Affordable and Accessible Basic
Banking Services 33
Promoting a Progressive and Inclusive Financial System 36
Promoting a Progressive and Inclusive Islamic Financial System 54
Feature Article: The Rise of Islamic Finance in ASEAN: Unlocking Its Growth
Potential 62
Promoting Safe and Efficient Payment and Remittance Services 69
Feature Article: Fraud Resolution: Building Trust through Shared Accountability 81
Issuing Currency 86
Maintaining Financial Integrity 92
Managing Bank Negara Malaysia
People 100
Towards a Greener Financial System 106
Risk Management and Internal Controls 119
Engaging Malaysians 126
International Engagements 136
Feature Article: Malaysia’s 2025 ASEAN/ASEAN+3 Chairmanship:
Advancing Inclusive and Sustainable Economic Growth for
ASEAN and Malaysia 140
Governance
Board of Directors, Senior Management and Statutory Committees of
Bank Negara Malaysia 150
Our Finances
Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2025 179
Income Statement for the Year Ended 31 December 2025 180
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2025 181


Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour
Governor, Bank Negara Malaysia
Foreword
A year of contrasts
The year 2025 reminded us that the world can change quickly and not always in ways that we expect.
Globally, geopolitical tensions intensified and growing geoeconomic fragmentation reshaped trade
relationships and unsettled financial markets. With supply chains tested and businesses lacking clarity,
some investment decisions were put on hold. This uncertainty made the economy harder to read, as
evidenced by multiple revisions to global growth forecasts. Yet, uncertainties and volatilities are not
foreign to central banks. In fact, history reminds us that this is not an exception but a permanent feature
of the economy. What matters is how we respond to it – with vigilance, pragmatism, perseverance and the
ability to adapt – without losing sight of purpose.
Against this backdrop, ASEAN offered the world a different story. When division became more common,
the region chose cooperation and dialogue. This collective resolve mattered, as it anchored confidence,
supported economic activity and provided a more stable regional environment.
The Malaysian economy remained resilient, recording a growth of 5.2% (2024: 5.1%), despite a
challenging external environment. Stable domestic economic, monetary and financial conditions helped
cushion the impact of external shocks. This also paved the way for important reforms to take place and
deliver the expected outcomes. As a result, the Malaysian economy stands in good stead to navigate
future headwinds. This resilience was a result of deliberate design and the collective efforts of the public
and private sectors, as well as the consistent work of institutions entrusted by the nation over the years.


Throughout this episode, Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) remained focused on promoting monetary and
financial stability in support of sustainable economic growth. At its core, this mandate is about people,
preserving livelihoods, safeguarding confidence, and ensuring that the financial system continues to
effectively serve the needs of the real economy.
Resilience amid headwinds
Malaysia’s economic expansion continued to be anchored by resilient domestic demand. The year saw
household spending benefitting from favourable employment and income prospects, as well as targeted
policy measures to alleviate cost pressures. Investment activity remained firm, with continued capital
expenditure across manufacturing and services sectors as well as infrastructure projects. This was also
supported by the implementation of multi-year public projects and steady realisation of approved private
investments. Importantly, these higher quality investments go beyond near-term growth – they also lift our
productive capacity and create opportunities for future generations.
While external demand was more challenging, exports by key sectors, including electrical and electronics
(E&E) and selected services, continued to hold. This resilience is closely linked to Malaysia’s continued
efforts to diversify its economic base, strengthen competitiveness and move up the global value chain.
Decades of diversification reduces our reliance on any single sector or market, making the economy more
resilient to shocks.
Monetary policy remained responsive and forward-looking. Against rising global uncertainties, the
Monetary Policy Committee pre-emptively reduced the Overnight Policy Rate from 3% to 2.75% to secure
Malaysia’s growth path, and buffer against emerging downside risks emanating from global uncertainties.
The decision reflected an intention to act early, guided by a forward assessment of evolving risks, and
supported by a contained inflationary environment that provided the space for prompt action. Since then,
the transmission of monetary policy has remained orderly and in line with expectations. This adjustment is
expected to provide additional support to the economy into 2026.
Complementary measures further ensured sufficient liquidity in the domestic financial system amid
heightened global financial volatility. The reduction in the Statutory Reserve Requirement provided banks
with greater flexibility to manage their liquidity, helping ensure that credit continued to flow to eligible
households and businesses. Our policy actions serve to ensure stable borrowing conditions, continued
access to financing and confidence that Malaysia’s financial system will continue to function smoothly,
even in challenging times.
Reforms for the people
The conducive macro-environment provided space for the Government to advance critical structural
reforms, despite external headwinds. Measures such as water and energy tariff adjustments as well as
the rationalisation of the RON95 subsidy were implemented to partly address long-standing distortions,
improve resource allocation and strengthen the foundations for long-term growth.
These reforms are necessary, but they are not without pain. Recognising this, they were carefully
designed and sequenced, with mitigating measures to manage transition costs, limit spillovers and
safeguard vulnerable groups. These are important ingredients to give reform measures the best chance of
success. Ultimately, reforms must strengthen resilience, without leaving any segment of society behind.
At the same time, initiatives taken to drive industrial transformation and greater economic complexity
continued to be advanced. Enhancing Malaysia’s value proposition to the world remained a critical
development priority, as productivity-driven growth is essential to generate quality employment, raise
wages and sustain income growth over time. After all, structural reforms are about securing a better
future. Not just better numbers, but meaningful long-term outcomes for our households and businesses.


A steady hand
Despite bouts of volatility in the foreign exchange market, BNM remained steadfast in preserving stability.
The ringgit strengthened steadily throughout the year, recording the largest appreciation among regional
currencies on the back of sustained portfolio and foreign direct investment inflows. This reflected
confidence in Malaysia’s economic fundamentals, our consistency and credibility in policy making as well
as commitment to reforms. Efforts to encourage more balanced two-way foreign exchange flows in the
onshore market also saw positive outcomes, with deeper participation from domestic and non-resident
investors. The orderly financial markets provided stability, confidence and an environment in which
households and businesses can plan with greater certainty.
At the same time, BNM continued to bolster Malaysia’s external buffers, maintaining adequate international
reserves to preserve policy space should global conditions turn. To this end, we saw the various initiatives
lead to around USD10 billion of net inflows during the year, supporting an increase in gross international
reserves to USD128 billion as at 13 March 2026 (2024: USD116 billion).
Serving the real economy
The financial sector maintained its effectiveness in mobilising funds between savers and borrowers.
Financial institutions remained well capitalised and operationally resilient, supported by ample liquidity
buffers and sound asset quality. This ensured continued access to financing for households and
businesses, supporting consumption, investment and livelihoods.
Malaysia’s payment and settlement systems remained reliable and secure, supporting increasing
transaction volumes. Ongoing efforts to modernise financial market infrastructures, including the rollout
of near real-time funds settlement (RENTAS+), will further strengthen the foundations for developments in
digital finance.
BNM also ensured that its regulatory and supervisory approaches remained pragmatic, proportionate
and risk-based. Supervisory efforts focused on ensuring that financial institutions remained resilient to
emerging risks, including those arising from digitalisation, cyber threats and climate change. Regulatory
standards continued to be aligned with international best practices, while calibrated to Malaysia’s domestic
context and priorities.
Our role requires striking a delicate balance. While we want to preserve financial stability, fostering
inclusion and responsible innovation are also key. Finance should create value, unlocking opportunities
while managing risks to the real economy.
Preserving trust and integrity
Public confidence in the integrity of the financial system remains central to our mission. Efforts to combat
financial fraud were intensified through enhanced supervisory expectations, industry-wide measures and
public awareness campaigns. Earlier efforts by banks to reinforce malware defences since end-2024 are
delivering results, with some banks reporting zero malware cases in 2025.
Complementing this is the progress we made in strengthening anti-money laundering and counter-
terrorism financing measures which was strongly recognised by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).
Results of the Mutual Evaluation exercise by FATF saw rating upgrades across several key areas that led
to Malaysia being placed under the highest category of ‘Regular Monitoring’, an upgrade from ‘Enhanced
Monitoring’ previously. On behalf of the National Coordination Committee (NCC), I would like to thank
all stakeholders, including NCC members and financial institutions, for their unwavering commitment
and efforts to deliver this hard-won achievement that will go a long way to shore up confidence in our
economy and financial system.


Building for the future
2025 also marked the penultimate year of the Financial Sector Blueprint (FSBP) 2022–2026. Looking back,
we have made inroads across several development priorities. On digitalisation, digital banks gradually
expanded their offerings and reach to unserved and underserved communities, while initiatives such as
electronic police reporting for minor accidents – now piloted on PLUS highways – reduced friction in the
claims process and improved efficiency across the ecosystem.
These advances were also accompanied by key reforms to strengthen consumer protection and financial
resilience. This includes the enactment of the Consumer Credit Act, revisions to the Hire-Purchase Act,
formulation of the National Financial Literacy Strategy 2026–30 and finalisation of the medical health
insurance and takaful (MHIT) base product design. These reforms were made possible with the strong
support and cooperation of government ministries and agencies as well as the financial industry.
At the same time, we continued to accelerate responsible innovation. Platforms and initiatives such as the
Digital Asset Innovation Hub, Climate Finance Innovation Lab and i-CITA programme were set up to support
financial solutions that respond directly to the needs of our economy and society. Further progress has
also been made to build climate resilience of financial institutions and their customers, with most financial
institutions offering green products and solutions. Meanwhile, the expansion of the iTEKAD programme,
going beyond entrepreneurship support and into risk protection and employability-related support, will lend
further help to thousands of micro-entrepreneurs, many from vulnerable communities.
Our whole-of-ecosystem approach also defines the strides made in Islamic finance. Value-based finance
has become more entrenched, with Islamic financial institutions leading the way. New impact-driven pilots
were rolled out, and the phased adoption of the transformative MYOR-i – the world’s first transaction-
based Islamic benchmark rate – marks an important milestone in deepening Islamic financial markets.
Looking ahead, we will harness our strength to provide global leadership and position Islamic finance
as a catalyst for progressive and inclusive growth, from expanding social finance and boosting the halal
ecosystem to enhancing integration across ASEAN. The formation of the MIFC Business Network is also
expected to improve industry’s coordination and facilitation to secure more inward and outward business
opportunities for the nation.
Stronger together
As the country’s central bank, our policies and actions affect millions of Malaysians, and such efforts
can never be ours alone. To this end, we engaged widely and proactively with those that we serve
and regulate. Good policy must be anchored not only in data, but also in on-the-ground realities.
Engagements with businesses across Malaysia helped us better understand emerging risks and shifts
in behaviour – often before they show up in the numbers. It brings real time insights from plantations in
Tawau or households in Besut right to Kuala Lumpur.
As a regulator, continuous dialogue with the broader industry and market participants sharpens our
assessment of what matters most for Malaysia’s financial development, and how to calibrate reforms in a
way that is effective and proportionate.
Our stakeholders in the Parliament and across the Government keep us focused on outcomes, and
ultimately on delivering for the rakyat. With each conversation, we strengthen the trust extended to our
institution. Importantly, our collaborative approach to policy – fiscal, financial and monetary – builds
coherence and amplifies potency. This has been long recognised as a strength by the global investment
community, including key rating agencies.


Progress through cooperation
In an increasingly fragmented world, ASEAN can be a source of strength. Malaysia’s ASEAN
Chairmanship was an opportunity to affirm and solidify the region’s core values and principles –
a shared commitment and collective responsibility in enhancing regional peace, security and prosperity.
Amid heightened global trade tensions, ASEAN’s unified commitment to a measured and constructive
response reflected this. For Malaysia, being part of a region that values cooperation and stability has
been an important anchor in navigating an increasingly complex global landscape. To this end, BNM
led efforts to advance deeper regional financial and economic integration under the Finance Track.
Regional payment connectivity was expanded, with 29 payment linkages now operational across
ASEAN Member States. Now, a tourist making purchases or a small business selling products across
borders can make and receive payments more quickly, securely and at lower cost. This reduces
friction, expands opportunities and can support the livelihoods across ASEAN communities.
We also mobilised investments into regional green projects, including the ASEAN Power Grid.
Such initiatives are not only about climate goals; they are also about energy security, long term
competitiveness, and creating the foundations for future growth and jobs. Malaysia also lent its
experience through the Greening Value Chain initiative which is now being rolled out in two other
ASEAN economies.
At the same time, ASEAN’s capacity to respond collectively to external shocks was strengthened, including
through enhancements to the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation and critical strategies under the
ASEAN Geoeconomics Task Force. These measures reinforce ASEAN’s capacity to respond collectively to
external shocks, creating an additional layer of resilience against global uncertainties.
Looking ahead
Uncertainties surrounding global trade and capital flow dynamics will continue to shape the 2026 outlook.
Developments in the Middle East have added another layer of uncertainty with potentially far-reaching
spillovers, given implications on commodity prices and financial market conditions. The extent of impact
on growth and inflation is highly contingent on the duration, intensity and severity of the conflict. At the
same time, while rapid advances in artificial intelligence present opportunities to raise productivity and
efficiency, there are risks of inventory and market corrections as well as heightened financial market
volatility given potential overvaluations.
In this environment, Malaysia’s domestic resilience and diversified export structure provides us with a
solid foundation to navigate current external headwinds. The Malaysian economy is projected to grow
between 4% and 5%, supported by household spending, expansion in investments, sustained global
demand – particularly for E&E exports, and steady tourism amid Visit Malaysia Year 2026. Our standing
as a net energy exporter will also lend us some resilience against the increase in global commodity
prices. Meanwhile, inflation is expected to remain moderate between 1.5% and 2.5%. While upside risks
stemming from developments in global commodity and energy prices remain, targeted policies are in
place to help cushion the impact on households and businesses.
The ongoing geoeconomic shifts represent structural changes and continues to evolve with long lasting
implications. At this juncture, we must recognise that the global landscape is becoming less predictable,
as geopolitical considerations increasingly shape economic outcomes. Developments in the Middle East
underscore that conflict can create ripples across the globe, while benefitting none. This underscores the
urgency for Malaysia and ASEAN to deepen domestic and regional reforms. We must work closely together,
including through the ASEAN Geoeconomics Task Force, to navigate this evolving environment. We also
need to mindfully position ourselves to face the challenges and capitalise on opportunities to come.


For Malaysia, it is important that we remain focused and committed to strengthening our economic
fundamentals and policy buffers. By improving fiscal sustainability and attracting quality investments, we
have created space to further advance much needed urgent reforms for social protection and the labour
market. These reforms may involve some short-term adjustments, but they are necessary to ensure
that growth is more inclusive and benefits the rakyat – including generations to come. Malaysia’s path
to becoming a developed, high-income nation must be paved with shared prosperity. We must build an
economy that creates better paying jobs, supports our households and businesses, and remains resilient
for decades to come.
For BNM, we will remain vigilant in ensuring that we are well-equipped to navigate the challenges ahead,
without losing sight of longer-term priorities to enhance our economic prospects and preserve our
resilience. The Monetary Policy Committee will continue to closely monitor developments and assess the
balance of risks to the growth and inflation outlook. We also stand ready – as we have through successive
periods of heightened uncertainty – to ensure orderly markets and manage risks of excessive volatility.
As the FSBP 2022–2026 enters its final phase, implementation will be accelerated along with work
to develop the next course for Malaysia’s financial sector. We will work to better facilitate innovation,
including in emerging areas such as digital finance, stablecoins and climate adaption in a safe and
responsible manner.
What remains true
While the environment continues to evolve, BNM’s commitment is certain. As an organisation, we will
continue to faithfully discharge our mandate to build a brighter future for all Malaysians. We will continue
to strengthen our capabilities to better serve the nation. This includes continuing to extend our ongoing
efforts to optimise work processes, investing in the responsible use of technology, reviewing manpower
needs and embedding sustainability more deeply into the organisation.
What BNM has achieved was only made possible by the hard work, dedication and perseverance of our
staff. I would like to express my heartfelt appreciation to our people for your professionalism, resilience
and quiet commitment to public service. Your work, in the frontlines and behind the scenes, touches
the lives of households, businesses, and communities across the country. I would also like to extend my
gratitude to the Board of Directors for their guidance and steady stewardship. Beyond our organisation,
my appreciation also goes to our partners across government ministries and agencies, financial sector,
as well as peer central banks and regulators, whose shared purpose and collaboration have been
instrumental in advancing our collective goals.
With all the support, I am confident that BNM will continue to ensure that the financial sector remains a
strong enabler of meaningful economic progress. As we press ahead, remember that we are stronger
together in delivering our best for the 34 million Malaysians that we serve.
Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour


eloR
ruO


eloR
ruO


Our Role
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) is Malaysia’s central bank. Our principal objective is
to promote monetary stability and financial stability conducive to the sustainable
growth of the Malaysian economy. BNM derives its mandate and powers from
the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 and other laws that it administers.1
In our role to promote monetary stability, BNM progress. Our pursuit to develop and deepen
formulates and conducts monetary policy to both the conventional and Islamic financial
keep inflation low and stable, while ensuring that system also recognises that a well-developed
it is supportive of sustainable economic growth. financial system is one that can help absorb
We are also mandated to promote an exchange shocks, and therefore contributes to the
rate regime consistent with the fundamentals of country’s resilience.
the economy.
BNM carries out a number of other important
To promote financial stability, BNM regulates functions. These include issuing currency,
and supervises financial institutions to promote and holding and managing the country’s
their safety and soundness. We oversee money foreign reserves. BNM is also the financial
and foreign exchange markets to promote adviser, banker and financial agent of the
their integrity and orderly functioning. We Government. Together with other government
also exercise oversight over payment systems and law enforcement agencies, we play a
to foster safe, efficient and reliable payment role in helping to prevent the criminal abuse
systems and payment instruments. In addition, of financial services. Additionally, BNM has
we regulate the conduct of financial institutions been responding to climate risk, firstly through
and intermediaries in order to provide appropriate regulation and supervision of
appropriate protection to financial consumers. financial institutions, to support an orderly
transition to a low-carbon economy; and
BNM plays a key role in promoting a progressive secondly by embedding sustainable practices in
and inclusive financial system. This takes into our own operations.
account the changing needs of the Malaysian
economy and its people, and the central role In all BNM does, it does in the best interest of
of finance in the nation’s economic and social the nation.
1 Other key legislation includes the Financial Services Act 2013; Islamic Financial Services Act 2013; Development Financial Institutions Act
2002; Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001; Money Services Business Act 2011;
and the Currency Act 2020.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Promoting
Monetary Stability
The Monetary Policy Committee central bank’s key policy rate also known as
the Overnight Policy Rate (OPR). A change
(MPC) formulates monetary policy in
in the OPR influences, among others, banks’
Malaysia to maintain price stability lending and financing rates, as well as deposit
rates. These changes affect how expensive or
while taking into account broader affordable loans are and how attractive it is to
save – shaping households’ and businesses’
economic and financial conditions.
spending and saving decisions. In turn, this
Meeting six times a year, the MPC affects overall demand and the prices of
goods and services in the economy.
assesses Malaysia’s inflation and
In setting the OPR, the MPC assesses both
growth prospects to decide on the
current economic conditions and where
Overnight Policy Rate. the economy is heading. Its main goal is
to keep inflation low and stable in support
of sustainable growth. If economic activity
Monetary Policy in 2025 is expected to slow, the MPC may lower
the OPR to make borrowing cheaper and
encourage spending. When prices rise
Introduction to Monetary Policy too quickly, as demand is stronger than
supply, the MPC may raise the OPR to slow
Monetary policy1 in Malaysia is set by BNM’s spending and keep inflation under control.
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) through the (See Diagram 1 for the illustration).
Diagram 1: How Monetary Policy Works Through the Economy
1 2 3 4
or
The MPC decides the Changes in the OPR Lower interest rates These decisions
OPR based on its affect* interest rates tend to encourage more support price stability
assessment of current across the economy, spending and less and sustainable
economic conditions and including lending and saving; while higher economic growth
the outlook – raising, deposit rates offered rates usually have the
lowering or maintaining it by banks opposite effect
to either support activity
or cool an overheating
economy
If the MPC maintains the OPR, the decision will not directly affect* lending and depos it rates
* This can still be subject to change depending on market dynamics, macroeconomic developments and banks’ strategies.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
1 More information on Malaysia’s monetary policy and the MPC
can be found in the ‘Governance’ chapter of this report and in the
‘Monetary Stability’ section of the BNM’s website (https://www.
bnm.gov.my/monetary-stability).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 11


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Global Economic and Financial Conditions In this environment, emerging market economies
(EMEs) including Malaysia experienced capital
In making its monetary policy decisions, the MPC inflows, and their currencies strengthened against
first considers what is happening in the global the US dollar, particularly in the second half of 2025.
economy. This is important because Malaysia, as
a small and open economy, is closely connected
Domestic Economy
to other countries. Developments abroad can
affect Malaysia’s economy in real and tangible
The Malaysian economy performed well in 2025
ways – from the prices we pay to how we trade.
despite the challenging global environment.
While global conditions provide an important
The global economy continued to expand in
backdrop, the MPC focuses primarily on
2025 despite a highly challenging and uncertain
domestic growth and inflation considerations in
external environment. When the United
its monetary policy decisions.
States (US) announced higher import tariffs in
early 2025, it affected global trade flows and
As a highly open economy, Malaysia is exposed
increased uncertainty around policy and growth
outcomes.2 Despite this, global trade turned out to external developments, and the MPC therefore
assesses their impact on the outlook of domestic
to be relatively resilient during the year. Firms
economic growth and inflation. The external
accelerated shipments ahead of higher US tariffs,
sector6 was largely resilient throughout 2025.
while strong artificial intelligence (AI)-related
Exports were supported mainly by firm electrical
demand for technology goods provided an
and electronic (E&E) performance and strong
additional boost. As the year progressed, trade
inbound tourism.
agreements reached between the US and a few of
its trading partners eased some of the uncertainty.
Malaysia has a diversified export structure – in
Many final tariff rates were set lower than initially
expected,3 reducing pressures on global trade terms of trade partners and product segments.
This helped cushion the impact of rising global
and sentiment. Alongside this, firm household
trade barriers and weaker shipments to the US.
spending, investment, as well as supportive fiscal
Even as frontloading by US importers eased
and monetary policies across major economies
lent support to global economic growth.
Diagram 2: 2025 Key Domestic Figures at a Glance
Global inflation continued to ease during the year.
While demand and economic activity expanded,
they did so at a pace that did not generate
Real GDP grew by
excessive inflationary pressures. At the same
5.2%
time, a higher supply of key commodities, like oil,
(2024: 5.1%)
pushed their prices down. This in turn lowered
input costs4 for producers. Stronger currencies
against the US dollar also helped keep inflation in
check across most countries.
Broadly stable prices worldwide allowed major
Headline inflation
central banks to lower interest rates, supporting a averaged at
further easing in global financial conditions. This 1.4%
easing continued despite bouts of financial market (2024: 1.8%)
volatility arising from uncertainties over global
trade and monetary policy,5 which peaked in April
after the US administration announced reciprocal
tariffs. However, as the year progressed, new
trade agreements and greater clarity on the global Overnight Policy Rate (OPR)
trade outlook helped restore investor confidence. reduced to
2.75%
in July 2025
2 This was further exacerbated by the potential retaliatory responses
by other major economies.
3 Based on BNM estimates, the US effective tariff rate (ETR), which
takes into account reciprocal tariff rate, product tariff rate and tariff
exemptions eased to around 17.4% towards the end of the year. Source: Bank Negara Malaysia and Department of Statistics, Malaysia
4 Input costs refer to the expenses incurred by a business or
producer in acquiring the necessary resources, materials, and
services to create a product or provide a service.
5 Uncertainty around global monetary policy in this context mainly 6 The external sector refers to a country’s economic interactions
reflects shifting expectations about the US Federal Reserve’s with the rest of the world, including the buying and selling of goods
policy path. and services, as well as cross-border investment flows.
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
in the second half of the year, E&E exports progress steadily, as initiatives under national
benefitted from strong global demand for Al- masterplans were also rolled out.10 Investment
related technology goods. At the same time, approvals remained robust, reflecting continued
higher flight connectivity, visa exemptions for confidence in Malaysia’s investment landscape.
selected countries,7 and promotional initiatives in Many earlier-approved investments were also
the lead-up to Visit Malaysia 20268 helped draw translated into real activities. Notably, 84.9% of
more tourists to Malaysia. As a result, Malaysia manufacturing investment projects approved
continued to experience a current account by the Malaysian Investment Development
surplus in 2025, with export earnings exceeding Authority (MIDA) between 2021 and 2025
spending on imports. have already progressed to various stages
of implementation.11 Sustained government
Amid the resilient external sector, domestic spending and strategic capital investments
demand9 continued to be a key engine of by public corporations also lent support to
growth. Better employment, wage growth and public investment growth. Taken together, this
income-related measures throughout the year reinforced overall investment momentum.
shaped household spending. These measures
include the Civil Servant Salary Revision
Domestic Inflation
(CSSR) and minimum wage revision for the
private sector, while targeted cash transfers,
In assessing inflation, the MPC looks at both
including Sumbangan Tunai Rahmah (STR) and
headline and core inflation. (Refer to Diagram
Sumbangan Asas Rahmah (SARA), provided
3 for more information). Domestic inflation
further support.
stayed broadly contained in 2025. Headline
inflation moderated further to 1.4% as global
Investment activity continued to be an important
cost conditions eased. While domestic policy
driver of Malaysia’s growth. Multi-year projects
adjustments – particularly the electricity tariff
by public and private sectors continued to
Diagram 3: Headline and Core Inflation Comparison
Headline Core
Underlying price trends that are
What it measures Overall inflation in an economy
less affected by temporary
or one-off factors
Based on Consumer Price Index Together, they provide Excludes items with prices that
(CPI), which captures essential MPC with are more volatile and those set
Coverage items like food and energy, and a comprehensive basis by the government that are in
tends to experience short-term for monetary policy the CPI basket (e.g. fresh meat,
price fluctuations decisions vegetables, fuel, electricity)
Overall change in the price of More sustained trend of inflation
goods and services that which is important for monetary
What it helps show households typically buy policy considerations
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia and Department of Statistics, Malaysia
7 Malaysia’s visa-free entry scheme for travellers from China and 10 These included among others, the New Industrial Master Plan
India was originally introduced in December 2023. This initiative, (NIMP 2030) and National Energy Transition Roadmap (NETR).
which allows stays of up to 30 days, has been extended until 31 11 Source: Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA).
December 2026. More information can be found on MIDA’s website (https://www.
8 More information can be found on the official tourism website of mida.gov.my/why-malaysia/mida-insights/).
Malaysia (https://www.malaysia.travel/page/visit-malaysia-2026).
9 Domestic demand refers to the total spending within a country by
households, businesses, and the government.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 13


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
restructuring and rationalisation of RON95 In addition to our monetary policy decisions, we
fuel subsidies – were initially expected to add reduced the Statutory Reserve Requirement (SRR)
temporary upward pressure on inflation, the ratio from 2% to 1% in May. This provided banks
overall impact turned disinflationary.12 This with greater flexibility to manage liquidity in the face
reflected the policy design and implementation, of financial market volatility.15 Throughout the year,
whereby most households benefitted from our monetary operations focused on maintaining
lower electricity rates while eligible Malaysians sufficient liquidity in the domestic banking system
faced lower retail fuel prices, consistent with the to support financial intermediation.
government’s intention to cushion households
from the effects of these reforms.
The Ringgit Exchange Rate
Meanwhile, core inflation stayed stable and
close to its long-term average of 2%, supported Malaysia adopts a flexible exchange rate regime.16
by steady domestic demand without undue This means the ringgit is determined based on the
price pressures. Overall, the contained inflation supply and demand for our currency, with foreign
provided a stable environment for people and exchange movements influenced by both global
businesses to conduct economic activities and domestic factors. Global factors include
without worrying about significant price changes. monetary policy in major economies and changes
in commodity prices. Domestic factors include
Malaysia’s growth and inflation outlook, and
Monetary Policy Developments
overall market sentiment.
The MPC always looks ahead when making
In the first half of 2025, the ringgit strengthened.
monetary policy decisions. This is because
The appreciation was driven by global investor
changes to the OPR do not affect economic
interest in emerging market economies (EME)
activity and inflation right away.13 In 2025, the
assets amid trade-related uncertainties. This
MPC made the pre-emptive decision to reduce
continued into the second half of the year,
the OPR by 25 basis points to 2.75% in July.14
supported by easier global monetary policy. This
included the US Federal Reserve, which lowered
While the domestic economy was on solid footing
its policy rate three times since September 2025.
at the time, global developments posed greater
downside risks to Malaysia’s growth outlook. By
Global monetary easing supported the ringgit in
acting early, the MPC sought to ensure that policy
two ways. First, as interest rates abroad fell, the
support would already be in place if these risks
gap between their interest rates and Malaysia’s
materialise. If they did not, the costs of acting
became smaller. Foreign investors therefore
pre-emptively were limited, given that inflation
earned less from holding assets in their respective
remained contained.
countries than before, making investments in
Malaysian assets more attractive. Second, easier
Throughout the rest of the year, Malaysia’s
global financial conditions also improved risk
economy continued to be supported by steady
sentiment. This encouraged investors to seek
spending and investment. Inflation also stayed
better returns in emerging markets, including
low, helped by contained global cost conditions
Malaysia. As these inflows rose, demand for the
and the absence of excessive demand pressures.
ringgit increased, helping to support its value.
In this environment, the MPC kept the OPR
unchanged, as it viewed the current stance as
In addition to these global factors, the ringgit’s
appropriate and supportive of the economy.
performance was also supported by positive
The preemptive cut is expected to continue
sentiment surrounding Malaysia’s favourable
providing additional support to the broader
economic outlook. Ongoing structural reforms
economy in 2026.
against a backdrop of political stability further
strengthened investor confidence. These
12 Electricity costs fell for most households following tariff developments enhanced Malaysia’s appeal as an
restructuring, which introduced lower domestic rates and rebates
investment destination. By end-2025, the ringgit
under the Energy Efficiency Incentive. The phased rollout of the
BUDI95 programme, particularly the introduction of a lower recorded the largest appreciation among regional
subsidised price of RM1.99 per litre, for all eligible Malaysian currencies against the US dollar (Chart 1).
citizens, contributed to lower inflation during the year.
13 In Malaysia, changes in the OPR transmit almost immediately to
market and reference rates, including the Standardised Base Rate
(SBR), Base Rate (BR) and Base Lending Rate (BLR). However,
the effects on the broader economy take longer to materialise, 15 More information on the SRR can be found in the ‘Monetary
as households’ and businesses’ consumption and investment Operations’ section of the BNM’s website (https://www.bnm.gov.
decisions adjust gradually. my/statutory-reserve-requirement-srr-).
14 More information on Malaysia’s monetary policy decision-making 16 More information on the ringgit can be found in the ‘Ringgit
process can be found in the ‘Monetary Stability’ section of the Exchange Rate Policy’ section of the BNM’s website (https://www.
BNM’s website (https://www.bnm.gov.my/monetary-stability). bnm.gov.my/monetary-stability/ringgit).
14 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Chart 1: Performance of Selected Currencies market further, enabling banks and businesses
Against the US Dollar and Ringgit Nominal to meet their funding and foreign exchange
Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) needs more effectively. At the same time,
BNM continued to promote access to hedging
Annual change (%) instruments18 to help businesses better manage
NEER 6.1 their foreign exchange risks.
MYR 10.2
THB 8.8 Research and Analysis
SGD 5.9
TWD 4.5 BNM undertakes research on both short- and
long-term economic developments, with a
CNY 4.4
focus on understanding their implications for
KRW 2.3 the Malaysian economy. These analyses inform
JPY 0.0 the MPC’s deliberations and support the Bank’s
broader economic policy advocacy.
PHP -1.8
IDR -3.3 Against heightened uncertainty this year, BNM’s
research efforts focused on assessing how global
-15.0 -10.0 -5.0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0
developments and domestic policy moves could
2025 2024 shape Malaysia’s economic outlook. This was
Note: Positive figures indicate an appreciation of currencies against not a straightforward task. Global shocks often
the US dollar. NEER shows the value of the ringgit against a spread through many interconnected channels,
trade-weighted basket of Malaysia’s major trading partners’
affecting growth and inflation in different ways.
currencies.
As a small and open economy, we are especially
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
sensitive to these ripple effects.
Throughout the year, BNM supported the
An important focus during the year was the
smooth functioning of the foreign exchange
impact of trade-related developments, particularly
market through our liquidity and foreign currency
the reciprocal tariffs imposed by the US. We
operations. By buying or selling the ringgit
closely examined how these tariffs were shaping
when necessary, our objective is to maintain
global trade flows, investment decisions and
two-way liquidity in the market, especially
business behaviour. This allowed the MPC to
during periods of stress. These actions helped
differentiate between short-term trade-related
ease pressures on the currency and kept the
disruptions versus more lasting implications
market operating smoothly. Such operations
for growth. We also undertook a careful review
also prevented sudden, excessive swings in
of domestic growth conditions and updated
the ringgit, which could disrupt activities like
Malaysia’s growth forecast for the year.19
exports and investments. Additionally, ongoing
coordinated efforts by the Government and BNM
We examined the economics of data centre
to encourage more consistent repatriation and
investments, in line with Malaysia’s rising position
conversion of foreign earnings by corporates and
as a regional data centre hub. Beyond their direct
investors continues to support more balanced
contribution to GDP, our research shows that data
two-way flows in the domestic financial market,
centres also have the potential to create spillover
including through the Qualified Resident Investor
gains across the supply chain, including higher
(QRI) programme.17
demand for construction, utilities, professional
services, and digital infrastructure, as well as the
Through ongoing initiatives under the Financial
creation of higher-paying jobs. Realising these
Markets Committee (FMC) and regular
benefits will depend on having the right policies
engagement sessions with large corporates, BNM
in place to strengthen forward and backward
pursued efforts to deepen the foreign exchange
linkages, while managing key risks.20
17 More information on the Qualified Resident Investor (QRI) programme 18 BNM introduced the dynamic hedging programme in December
can be found in the ‘Foreign Exchange Policy’ section of the BNM’s 2016 to allow greater flexibility for registered institutional investors
website (https://www.bnm.gov.my/fep/flexibilities/qri). to actively manage their invested assets’ foreign exchange
exposure. More information can be found on the Financial Markets
Investor Portal (FMIP): (https://financialmarkets.bnm.gov.my/
frequently-asked-questions).
19 Further analysis can be found in the BNM’s Second Quarter of
2025 Quarterly Bulletin White Box Article titled ‘Revised Growth
Forecast: Resilience amid Global Headwinds’.
20 Further analysis can be found in the BNM’s Third Quarter of 2025
Quarterly Bulletin Box Article titled ‘From Bytes to Bucks: The
Economics of Data Centres in Malaysia’.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 15


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Diagram 4: BNM Box Articles Published in 2025
Revised Growth Forecast: From Bytes to Bucks:
Resilience amid Global Headwinds The Economics of Data Centres in Malaysia
Outlines the key assumptions behind the revised Explores the economic role of data centres
growth forecast in July 2025, and the impact investments, in line with Malaysia’s growing role
of higher tariffs on Malaysia’s economy as a regional data centre hub
2Q 2025 3Q 2025
BNM Box Articles
Quarterly Quarterly
Published in 2025
Bulletin Bulletin
DEBT
Digital Services Trade in Malaysia: Malaysia’s Short-Term External Debt:
Opportunities and Policy Imperatives Some Insights on Its Key Drivers
Discusses the rise of digital services trade, its Examines the drivers of Malaysia’s STED
economic role, and the opportunities and and evaluates their implications for the
challenges in the sector country’s external resilience
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Digital services trade is becoming an increasingly firms in cross-border activities such as interbank
important contributor to Malaysia’s external borrowing and trade credit. Importantly, the debt
sector. This led us to assess its growing role, profile is favourable, helping to contain related
alongside the opportunities and policy priorities vulnerabilities. Overall, Malaysia’s external sector
needed to unlock the full potential of the digital continues to be a key pillar of economic strength,
economy. Our study shows that Malaysia has a providing a strong buffer against external shocks.
strong base to grow its digital services industry. This resilience is underpinned by sound economic
This includes good ICT infrastructure, supportive fundamentals and robust policy safeguards.22
government policies, a vibrant tech sector, and
a competitive talent pool. More work, however, Another area of research was to understand
is needed to shape the next stage of growth. how domestic policy changes introduced during
Key priorities include focusing on high-value, the year would affect inflation. As broad-based
low-latency industries, strengthening Malaysia’s disinflation occurred across many economies,
startup and intellectual property ecosystem, and BNM developed an internal framework to
developing a larger pool of digital talent.21 distinguish between disinflation and deflation23
(see Chart 2 for the illustration). This framework
We also assessed the resilience of Malaysia’s helped guide the MPC to respond appropriately
external sector by examining both the growth and without overreacting to short-term movements
composition of short-term external debt. While in prices. Overall, the assessments showed
the study showed that short-term external debt that deflation is not a material risk for Malaysia,
has been rising, this reflects Malaysia’s deeper reflecting healthy demand conditions, resilient
integration into the global economy, supported labour markets, and a stable inflation outlook
by the active participation of banks and private among firms and households.
21 Further analysis can be found in the BNM’s Second Quarter of 22 Further analysis can be found in the BNM’s Third Quarter of 2025
2025 Quarterly Bulletin Box Article titled ‘Digital Services Trade in Quarterly Bulletin Box Article titled ‘Malaysia’s Short-Term External
Malaysia: Opportunities and Policy Imperatives’. Debt: Some Insights on Its Key Drivers’.
23 For further discussion on cost of living and why households’
experiences may differ from headline inflation, see the Featured
Article ‘Beyond the Headline: Inflation Through the Eyes of
Households’ in this chapter.
16 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Chart 2: An Example of Inflation, Disinflation and Deflation
% Change from a Consumer Price Index (CPI)
Year Ago
Disinflation
4 Prices are still rising, but at
a slower pace than before If prices are higher
than a year ago, this is
considered to be
inflation
Inflation
An increase in prices
1 of goods and services
Month 1 Month 2 Month 3 Month 4
-1
-2 Deflation
A general drop in prices of
goods and services
-3
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
The Tun Ismail Ali Centre of Excellence in Throughout these engagements, our policy
Monetary and Financial Economics (TIACOE) advice remained grounded by a sound
was officially launched during the year as a understanding of the economy. We looked
BNM-endowed research centre under the carefully at how policies may affect domestic
stewardship of the Asia School of Business inflation and growth, and the daily lives of
(ASB). 24 TIACOE complements BNM’s internal households and businesses. Our aim remains to
research efforts, serving as a platform for fellows safeguard macroeconomic stability and protect
and affiliates of ASB, central bankers, scholars the welfare of all Malaysians.
and graduate students to conduct research in
the field of monetary and financial economics.
Following its set up in August, research grants Communications and Outreach
were awarded to recipients working on projects
in monetary policy as well as in liquidity Throughout 2025, BNM stayed closely
dynamics within Islamic Finance.25 engaged with its key stakeholders, including
analysts, financial market participants, the
Beyond research, as the financial and economic media and the Malaysian public. Through these
advisor to the Government, BNM continued engagements, we explained our monetary
to actively participate in several inter-agency policy decisions and major economic
policy groups focusing on Malaysia’s economic developments, such as growth, inflation, and
priorities. These included areas like the cost of movements in the ringgit. This helped deepen
living, labour, public finance, investments and understanding of BNM’s role and ensured
social protection. For example, we provided we are responsive to issues that matter in an
input on the policy design and payment uncertain global environment.
mechanism for BUDI95, helping ensure that
subsidies were delivered to the rakyat in a We spent some time during the year
targeted manner while minimising leakages. improving the way we communicate monetary
24 The Tun Ismail Ali Chair (TIAC) was established at the University of
Malaya in 2000 with the aim of strengthening academic excellence
in monetary and financial economics. It was conceived as a tribute
to Tun Ismail Ali, the first Malaysian Governor of Bank Negara
Malaysia and its longest-serving Governor. Over time, the initiative
has evolved into the Tun Ismail Ali Centre of Excellence, now under
the stewardship of the Asia School of Business.
25 For more information on these grants, please visit the Asia School
of Business, Tun Ismail Ali Centre of Excellence in Monetary &
Financial Economics research grants webpage: (https://asb.edu.
my/research-office/tun-ismail-ali-coe).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 17


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
policy decisions. To enhance transparency, is measured, drivers of the ringgit, and the role of
BNM introduced its first post-MPC media monetary policy in an economy.
interview series, aimed at better educating
the public on the MPC’s considerations
behind its policy decisions and the global and Going Forward
domestic conditions shaping them. To broaden
outreach on monetary policy, BNM continued We expect the global environment to remain
to leverage a range of channels, including uncertain, with many moving parts shaping
social media, media interviews, speeches, domestic economic conditions. Despite this,
publications, press conferences, and targeted Malaysia’s economy is projected to remain on
workshops and briefings.26 a firm footing, supported by resilient domestic
demand. We expect inflation to stay moderate,
In engaging with analysts, we held regular briefings keeping price changes steady and predictable.
after each MPC meeting. In these sessions, we
provided further clarity on our policy decisions and As developments abroad can influence conditions
the assessments behind them. These sessions are at home, the MPC will continue to monitor
designed to be interactive where analysts can pose global trends closely. In charting a steady path
questions and provide feedback to BNM. We also forward, the MPC will remain focused, alert to
held monetary policy workshops for the public and emerging risks, and vigilant to factors that may
media. These workshops provided deeper insights affect Malaysia’s growth and inflation prospects.
into our policy approach and provided space for Above all, the MPC remains committed to keeping
interactive discussions to address misconceptions inflation low and stable in support of sustainable
and information gaps. This includes how inflation economic growth.
Governor speaking at the press conference for the second quarter Quarterly Bulletin release
26 More information on the BNM’s public engagements throughout
the year can be found in the ‘Engaging Malaysians’ chapter of this
Annual Report.
18 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Beyond the Headline: Inflation through the Eyes of
Households
Introduction
Inflation in Malaysia has eased to its lowest level in five years. In 2025, headline inflation, measured as the
year-on-year growth in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), averaged 1.4%.1 But, high cost of living remains
a major concern for many households. This partly reflects how inflation is measured in official statistics
compared with people’s day-to-day experiences. In this article, we explore why this experience can feel
different from the headline inflation figures − a pattern seen in Malaysia and many other countries around
the world.
It is natural for inflation to be viewed in a way that reflects people’s
own experiences or opinions
Media headlines and everyday conversations about prices tend to draw on people’s own experiences,
especially when it comes to familiar vegetables like sawi or everyday meals such as nasi lemak and roti
canai. These day-to-day observations naturally shape how many Malaysians perceive inflation.
Evidence from around the world, including Malaysia, shows that people often perceive inflation to be
higher than what official figures report. This is especially the case after periods of sharp price increases,
such as those that followed the COVID-19 pandemic (Chart 1) (Weber et al. (2021); Anesti et al. (2024)).
This is understandable, as households feel the price changes directly in their daily spending.
Chart 1: Household Inflation Perceptions* Are Elevated Above Prevailing Inflation Rates
Advanced Economies Emerging Market Economies
Annual change (%) Annual change (%)
12 12
10 10
8 8
6 6
4 4
2 2
0 0
AU DE GB JP US ID KR MY PH SG TH
Inflation perceptions Inflation rates at the time of the survey Inflation perceptions Inflation rates at the time of the survey
* Household inflation perceptions typically refer to how households perceive the magnitude of past price changes. In contrast,
inflation expectations refer to the magnitude of future price changes expected by households (European Central Bank Economic Bulletin, 2021).
Note: AU = Australia, DE = Germany, GB = Great Britain, JP = Japan, US = United States, ID = Indonesia, KR = Korea, MY = Malaysia, PH = Philippines,
SG = Singapore, TH = Thailand
Source: Adapted from ‘A global survey of household perceptions and expectations’ (Bank for International Settlements (BIS), 2025).
The BIS conducted a cross-country survey in March–April 2025 examining households’ inflation perceptions and expectations, finding that
households in all surveyed economies consistently perceived inflation over the past 12 months to be higher than official published rates
1 Inflation is measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is published by Department of Statistics, Malaysia (DOSM) monthly. For further
information, please refer to the white box article on ‘Inflation, the Cost of Living and the Living Wage’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2018.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 19


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Households tend to form their views on inflation and price changes in two main ways.
First, households’ impressions of prices are largely influenced by the items they buy frequently,
such as staple food and beverages. This tendency, also known as frequency bias, means that regularly
bought items weigh more heavily on their perception of inflation. To better reflect this experience,
economists use indicators such as the Everyday Price Index (EPI), which assigns greater weight to
frequently purchased items in the CPI. By emphasising these regular purchases, the EPI captures price
changes that more closely mirror households’ day-to-day experiences.
Second, households’ perceptions are also shaped by how price changes are remembered. Price
increases tend to leave a stronger and more lasting impression than price declines, even when both
occur. This behavioural pattern, known as memory bias, is captured in the Perceived Price Index (PePI).
The PePI is similar to the EPI but includes only items that have recorded price increases, while excluding
those that have fallen in price.2 As a result, the PePI often shows a higher rate of inflation than both the
CPI and the EPI, reflecting the stronger impression that price hikes leave on households.
Recent trends in the data illustrate this clearly. Prices of everyday items such as fresh food, petrol and
utilities have eased, helped by softer global commodity prices and recent policy reforms (Table 1).3 As
a result, the EPI has fallen below headline inflation. Even so, the PePI has stayed high (Chart 2). This
suggests that many households still feel inflation is elevated because earlier price increases continued to
stand out more than the more recent price declines.
Table 1: Price Movements for Selected Items (2025 vs. 2024)
Prices stable
Price increases Price declines
(mainly price-administered items)
• Eating out: 4.1% (2024: 3.6%) • Vegetables: -4.4% (2024: 2.5%) • Toll facilities
• Water bills: 5.5% (2024: 28%) • Electricity: -3.4% (2024: 1.6%) • Government hospital fees
• Rent: 2.0% (2024: 1.7%) • Petrol: -0.9% (2024: -0.2%)
Source: Department of Statistics, Malaysia
Chart 2: Malaysia’s CPI, EPI and PePI
Annual change (%)
20 A
Following the pandemic, both the EPI and PePI rose above
headline inflation, reflecting households’ heightened focus
on rising prices for items like groceries and dining out.
B
Even as inflation for these items eased from
2023 onward, the PePI has stayed elevated,
A at around 2.5% to 5%, suggesting persistent
price pressures as perceived by households C
From the second half of
2025, the EPI fell below
5 B headline inflation as prices
3.6 for frequently purchased
C items moderated
1.6
1.3
-5
Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul. Jan.
2020 2020 2021 2021 2022 2022 2023 2023 2024 2024 2025 2025 2026
EPI PePI Headline CPI
Note: EPI and PePI are constructed by Bank Negara Malaysia using DOSM price data.
Source: Department of Statistics, Malaysia and Bank Negara Malaysia estimates
2 For more information, please refer to the box article ‘Inflation: Perception vs. Reality’ in BNM’s First Quarter of 2017 Quarterly Bulletin.
3 For example, policies include fuel subsidy rationalisation under BUDI95 and electricity tariff revision.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
So why do we still rely on the CPI?
The CPI is designed to measure overall inflation across the entire economy. It is built on a broad
and representative basket of goods and services that reflects the spending patterns of the average
household. To capture this full picture, the CPI includes not only everyday essentials but also items that
are purchased less frequently, such as computers and household appliances.
Because of this wider coverage, and its consistent methodology across countries, the CPI provides the
most complete and internationally comparable measure of inflation. This is why it remains the primary
indicator used to assess inflation trends and guide policy decisions.
At the same time, to gain a more holistic understanding of inflation as felt by households, some
economists also examine the EPI and PePI. Each of these indicators highlights a different angle of how
people experience price changes in their daily lives. Taken together, the CPI, EPI and PePI provide a
deeper and more nuanced picture – balancing lived experience with the broader economic perspective.
Inflation measures price growth, not price levels
Inflation measures how fast prices are rising, not how high prices already are. Many people think about
inflation by comparing today’s prices with what they were before, sometimes from years ago. When
everyday expenses feel high, it is natural to wish that prices could return to those earlier, more familiar
levels. These past price points often serve as a reference for how households assess whether their
purchasing power has improved or weakened.
But for prices to fall back to earlier levels would mean deflation. While deflation may sound appealing
at first, especially when living costs feel high, it can create deeper problems in the economy. If people
expect prices to keep falling, they may delay spending in the hope of getting a better deal later. When
this behaviour becomes widespread, it can weaken demand, reduce business revenues, and lead to job
losses and delayed investment, setting off a cycle of weaker economic activity (Diagram 1).
Diagram 1: When Falling Prices Create Bigger Problems
Today Tomorrow
If prices are going to If prices are going to be even
be cheaper tomorrow, cheaper tomorrow, I should
I should wait before buying wait longer before buying
What happens then?
Investment is put on hold
Businesses sell less Jobs and pay are affected
When demand is weak and uncertain,
When many people wait to buy, Companies may stop hiring,
businesses delay expansion
sales and profits go down cut salaries or reduce staff
and new projects
As incomes fall and people worry about their jobs, they cut their spending even more
Negative feedback loop
Less spending as people More downward pressure
Slower economic activity
expect lower prices on prices
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 21


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Prices play an important role in the economy. They signal changes in supply and demand to enable a
more efficient allocation of resources. In some cases, price increases are a natural and necessary part of
this process. For example, when the demand for a product is more than available supply, prices may rise
until they reach a point where buyers’ willingness to pay matches what sellers are willing to provide. This
was seen during the COVID-19 pandemic when global demand for rubber gloves far exceeded available
supply, causing average selling prices to more than double. In other cases, price changes could partly
reflect better quality or features – for example, getting a phone with a better camera or longer battery life.
In these situations, people may be paying more not just because of higher costs, but because they are
receiving a better product in return.
For some essential goods, the Government may step in and sometimes cap prices through subsidies
or price controls to ease short-term price pressures. However, such measures are costly for the
Government. In addition, if such caps stay in place for too long, they can also distort supply and demand.
For instance, in the case of price controls, producers may struggle to stay profitable when the cost of
producing a product rises above its fixed selling price. In turn, they may cut back on production, or focus
production towards exports markets offering higher prices, leading to supply shortages – commonly
known as the ‘empty shelves phenomenon’.
Purchasing power depends on prices, as well as wages
As the central bank, one of Bank Negara Malaysia’s (BNM) key objectives is to ensure low and stable
inflation. This is important as stable and predictable prices allow households and businesses to better
plan their spending, saving and investment decisions. In turn, this helps to support economic activity
and growth.
Preserving households’ purchasing power, however, depends not only on prices, but also on incomes.
Namely, when price increases are slow and predictable, households can maintain their purchasing power
as long as wages rise alongside prices. In such conditions, steady inflation allows incomes time to adjust,
helping households cope with higher prices and plan their spending with greater confidence.
Recent developments in Malaysia help illustrate this dynamic. In 2025, overall prices increased by 1.4%
while nominal wages per worker grew by 1.7%,4 bolstered by policy support and firm economic activity.
However, a closer look at how wage and price levels have evolved since before the pandemic shows
why many households still feel the strain. From 2019 to 2024, the headline CPI increased by 9.3%, while
nominal wages per worker grew by just 7.2%. In other words, this means that the average person must
work more hours to afford the same basket of goods. This is clearly illustrated in the case of food: as food
prices rose faster than wages in recent years, households must now work longer just to meet their usual
food expenses (Chart 3).
Chart 3: Working Hours Needed to Afford Monthly Food Expenditure*
Hours
+4 hours
48 +2 hours
50 44
Compared to T20 households:
28 30 • B80 households have to work longer to afford
their typical food consumption.
20 • B40 households allocate a larger share of their
income to food – 30% compared with 22% for
10 M40 households and 16% for T20 households.
B80 T20
2019 2024
* Based on gross median income and average spending on food, with the assumption of nine working hours/day and five working days/week.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia estimates using data from Household Income and Expenditure Surveys 2019 and 2024, Department of
Statistics, Malaysia
4 Nominal wages per worker refers to the wages of workers in the private-sector manufacturing and services industries.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
Recent income measures, such as revisions to the minimum wage,5 have helped to ease the burden of
more than five million workers in Malaysia. Over the longer term, however, deeper structural reforms are
needed to address the root causes of subdued wage growth in Malaysia.
First, there is a need to create more high-skilled and high-paying jobs. In 2025, high-skilled jobs made
up only 26% of new positions, lower than the 5-year (2020–24) average of 30%. This decline reflects
Malaysia’s slow transition from low to high value-added industries, muted adoption of technology and
low research and development (R&D) investment. To address these gaps, reforms that promote industrial
upgrading and support firms’ transition into more complex, high-value production are essential. In this
vein, initiatives such as the National Industrial Masterplan (NIMP2030) and the National Investment
Aspirations (NIA) aim to attract higher quality investments, promote technology-intensive production and
generate more high-skilled jobs.
At the same time, supply-side reforms are equally important to ensure the workforce can meet rising skill
demands. Persistent skills mismatches and limited support for upskilling and reskilling continue to limit
workers’ access to better-paying opportunities. Elevating education and training systems, deepening
industry linkages and expanding opportunities for lifelong learning will be critical.
Overall, a comprehensive reform agenda is needed to address persistent gaps in the labour market, raise
productivity and create more opportunities for better-paying jobs.6 Without addressing these underlying
conditions, wage growth could continue to lag price increases, leading to an erosion in living standards
over the long term.7
Conclusion: Perceptions and Policy
At the end of the day, inflation is not just about numbers. Household experiences shape perceptions and
expectations of inflation, influencing key economic decisions such as consumption, savings and wage
expectations. These, in turn, impact firms’ price-setting behaviour and create broader ripple effects on
the economy. When expectations of high inflation become widespread, they can also influence inflation
itself. In extreme cases, if people expect prices to rise faster than usual, their behaviour can end up
keeping inflation high for longer and affect a wider range of goods and services.8
In pursuit of low and stable inflation, BNM’s main tool is monetary policy. When inflation is high, BNM
adjusts monetary policy to manage overall demand in the economy, slowing the pace of price increases.
The aim is to ensure low and stable inflation, rather than an environment of deflation, which could harm
the economy. However, monetary policy alone cannot fully preserve purchasing power, as households’
wellbeing is also shaped by wage growth, productivity and broader cost of living trends.
Even with moderate inflation, many households continue to grapple with higher living costs amid slow
wage growth. To secure better living standards and strengthen purchasing power, income growth
needs to outpace increases in prices. When expenses rise faster than incomes, even small price
increases can feel significant to households, shaping how affordable things seem and how they view
the broader economy.
Ultimately, strengthening households’ purchasing power requires a holistic and coordinated policy
strategy. This entails complementing monetary policy with targeted fiscal support for vulnerable groups
and implementing structural reforms that boost incomes and productivity. By tackling both price and
wage dynamics, policymakers can safeguard purchasing power and support sustainable economic
growth over the long term.
5 In 2025, Malaysia’s minimum wage was raised to RM1,700 from RM1,500.
6 At this juncture, ongoing efforts by the Government to strengthen education and skills development include reforms to technical and vocational
education (TVET) and expanded industry-linked training initiatives.
7 For more information on policies addressing labour market challenges and wage growth, please refer to the box article ‘Sustaining the Engine:
The Evolving Drivers behind Malaysia’s Private Consumption Growth’ in BNM’s Economic and Monetary Review 2025 and the feature article
‘Curbing Inflation, Easing Costs: The Policy Perspective’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2024.
8 During the post-pandemic reopening of the economy, many people expected prices to rise faster than usual given the environment of
pent-up demand and supply disruptions. In turn, as costs rose, businesses were able to increase prices more easily without losing customers,
contributing to broad-based inflation which peaked at 4.7% in August 2022.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 23


PROMOTING MONETARY STABILITY
References:
Anesti, N., Esady, V., & Naylor, M. (2024). Food Prices Matter Most: Sensitive Household Inflation
Expectations. Bank of England.
Bank Negara Malaysia (2017). Inflation: Perception vs. Reality, Box Article in BNM Quarterly Bulletin: First
Quarter of 2017.
Bank Negara Malaysia (2018). Inflation, the Cost of Living and the Living Wage, White Box Article in BNM
Annual Report 2018.
Bank Negara Malaysia (2024). Curbing Inflation, Easing Costs: The Policy Perspective, Feature Article in
BNM Annual Report 2024.
Bank Negara Malaysia (2025). Sustaining the Engine: The Evolving Drivers behind Malaysia’s Private
Consumption Growth, Box Article in BNM Economic and Monetary Review 2025.
D’Acunto, F., De Fiore, F., Sandri, D. and Weber, M. (2025). A global survey of household perceptions
and expectations. BIS Quarterly Review, September, Bank for International Settlements. Retrieved from
https://www.bis.org/publ/qtrpdf/r_qt2509.pdf.
D’Acunto, F., Malmendier, U. and Weber, M. (2021). Exposure to grocery prices and inflation expectations.
Journal of Political Economy, 129(5), pp. 1615–1639.
De Fiore, F., Sandri, D. and Yetman, J. (2023). Household perceptions and expectations in the wake of the
inflation surge: Survey evidence. BIS Bulletin No. 104. Basel: Bank for International Settlements. Retrieved
from https://www.bis.org/publ/bisbull104.pdf.
Department of Statistics, Malaysia (2019 & 2024). Household Income and Expenditure Survey.
24 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Promoting Financial Stability
A core part of Bank Negara Malaysia’s • Enhancing risk management practices to build
resilience against emerging risks such as
(BNM) mandate is to promote a
fraud, cyber threats and climate change.
stable financial system to serve as a • Fostering responsible practices and high
standards of business conduct for fair
foundation for sustainable economic outcomes for consumers.
growth. This means financial
Regulatory Priorities
institutions are able to absorb shocks
In line with the priority areas, BNM issued nine key
and continue providing essential
prudential, market conduct and payment system
financial services to households and policies (Diagram 1).
businesses at all times. It safeguards
Adoption of global regulatory standards
Malaysians’ continued access to
We continued efforts to align our regulatory
savings, financing, insurance/takaful
framework with the Basel III standards. The aim
protection and payment services is for financial institutions to stay strong and
well-prepared to withstand shocks. In turn, this
even during times of economic stress. protects depositors and supports confidence
in the financial system. In 2025, we issued three
To this end, BNM regulates and
Exposure Drafts, namely the Capital Adequacy
supervises financial institutions to keep Framework (Internal Ratings-Based Approach for
Credit Risk) (IRB), Capital Adequacy Framework
the financial system strong. (Counterparty Credit Risk) (CCR) and Interest Rate
Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB).
Financial Stability Priorities These policies improve how banks measure
and manage risks. The revised IRB reduces
in 2025
undue differences in model-based risk
estimates,1 thus contributing to more credible
A resilient financial system ensures the continuity
and comparable capital ratios for banks.
of financial intermediation and services
Meanwhile, the new CCR methodology
during periods of stress and uncertainty. This
will enable banks to allocate capital more
sustains public confidence, thereby supporting
efficiently, especially for derivative transactions,
economic stability and growth. In the face of
supported by strong risk management
global uncertainties, including global trade and
practices. The IRRBB standard sets clearer
geopolitical tensions, Malaysia’s financial system
expectations on how banks manage the risk
remained resilient in 2025 amid a prudent and
from movements in interest or profit rates. In
robust regulatory environment.
practice, this means banks must have strong
oversight, proper controls and enough capital
Against this backdrop, BNM continued to anchor
to withstand these movements. Managing
our regulatory and supervisory priorities in 2025
this risk well helps ensure banks stay resilient
on safeguarding the resilience of the financial
through different interest rate environments.
system. Our efforts focused on four key areas:
• Aligning Malaysia’s regulatory framework
with global standards while adapting them to
local needs.
• Strengthening financial institutions’ ability to 1 Model-based risk estimates refer to measures such as the
manage operational disruptions in an increasingly probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default,
which banks derive using internal models to calculate risk-
digitised and interconnected environment. weighted assets under the IRB approach.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 25


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
Strengthening standards on risk personal financing. These enhanced requirements
management and operational resilience promote more prudent, responsible and transparent
financing practices. They can also help borrowers
Greater use of digital technology and shared make better-informed financing decisions and avoid
systems has made the financial system more taking on debt beyond what they can afford.
efficient and led to better outcomes for consumers.
However, it also increases the risk of disruptions In the digital payments space, we updated the payment
from cyber incidents and technical failures. In line card rules so that cardholders have more control over
with these heightened risks, BNM updated the Risk their own payment card security. Key changes include
Management in Technology (RMiT) requirements. stronger authentication methods and new self-service
The aim is to strengthen IT security and resilience security toggles, which allow cardholders to customise
against evolving cyber threats, outages and data the safety features of their payment card. This includes
breaches. We also issued a Discussion Paper the choice to turn off features such as card-not-
on Operational Resilience to invite industry-wide present (CNP)4 for overseas transactions through
feedback on how financial institutions should their banking application. Looking ahead, we also
prepare for and respond to severe disruptions. This plan to set stronger rules on how financial institutions
aims to ensure they can continue delivering critical respond to fraud, focusing on proper communication
services even amid severe operational disruptions. with account holders. These steps will help improve
coordination and speed up action across the industry.
Together, they will promote user confidence and drive
Ensuring responsible lending and fair greater fairness and transparency in how financial
outcomes to consumers institutions respond to fraud.
For a financial system to function efficiently, there Additionally, the passing of the Consumer Credit Act
needs to be trust between financial service providers 2025 (CCA)5 marks a key legislative reform aimed at
and consumers. This trust – built on accountability, strengthening consumer protection and harmonising
fairness and transparency – gives consumers the consumer credit regulation. The CCA provides an
confidence to participate in the financial system. overarching framework applicable to all authorities6
with oversight of consumer credit, including BNM.
During the year, we intensified efforts to strengthen This promotes consistency by ensuring that regulatory
this trust. With the revised policy, financial service standards issued by the authorities meet the minimum
providers can no longer use flat rate2 and/or Rule consumer protection expectations set out under the
of 78 method3 for calculating interest or profit for CCA. Through this coordinated approach, consumers
personal financing. This means consumers pay can benefit from effective and similar protection across
interest or profit only on the amount they still owe the entire credit industry.
and are not subject to excess charges for making
early repayments. Additionally, financial service Beyond policy reforms, we also engaged the public
providers must ensure that consumers complete as part of our broader commitment to building a
a financial education module, delivered either by fair, transparent and inclusive financial system for
the financial service provider or Agensi Kaunseling all Malaysians. For example, BNM held outreach
dan Pengurusan Kredit (AKPK), before applying sessions, including media workshops, to explain what
for any new personal financing product exceeding fair treatment means in practice and how it applies to a
RM100,000. Similar restrictions on the use of flat customer’s interactions with financial service providers.
rate and/or Rule of 78 method will also apply to Alongside this, we also rolled out initiatives to ensure
hire-purchase financing, once the recently enacted that consumers, especially those in the unserved
Hire-Purchase (Amendment) Act 2026 takes effect and underserved segments, have access to essential
on 1 June 2026. banking services at minimal cost.7
Financial service providers must now also adopt
more holistic affordability assessments. This goes
beyond assessing whether a borrower’s income 4 CNP transactions refer to payment card transactions where the
can cover existing debt obligations. They must also cardholder is not physically present (i.e., non-face-to-face) at the
merchant when the payment is made. Examples include online
ensure that the borrower has sufficient income left transactions, mail order/telephone order transactions and recurring
for essential living expenses after taking on new auto-debit transactions.
5 For more information on the CCA, refer to the Consumer Credit
Oversight Board Task Force (CCOBTF) website at (www.ccob.my).
6 Authorities with oversight of consumer credit include the Securities
2 ‘Flat rate’ refers to interest/profit rate that will remain at a specified Commission Malaysia, the Consumer Credit Commission, Malaysian
rate for the whole tenure of the loan/financing, and the interest/ Co-operatives Societies Commission, Ministry of Domestic Trade
profit is calculated based on the amount of the original loan/ and Cost of Living, Ministry of Housing and Local Government and
financing disbursed at the beginning of the loan/financing period. Ministry of Entrepreneur and Co-operatives Development.
3 ‘Rule of 78 method’ refers to an interest/profit calculation method 7 For more details on BNM’s regulatory initiatives, refer to the feature
that charges consumers more at the beginning of the loan and less article ‘Bridging the Gap: Affordable and Accessible Basic Banking
toward the end. Services (BBS)’ in BNM Annual Report 2025.
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
Diagram 1: Key Policy Issuances and Updates in 2025
Adoption of global regulatory standards
Capital Adequacy Framework Capital Adequacy Framework
(Internal Ratings-Based Approach (Counterparty Credit Risk) ED
for Credit Risk) Exposure Draft (ED) Introduces enhanced requirements for
Strengthens credit risk management measuring counterparty credit risk to ensure
with more robust and appropriately more robust and risk-sensitive capital
risk-sensitive capital requirements. treatment for derivative transactions.
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book ED
Strengthens banks’ resilience to interest/profit rate shocks through more granular
exposure measurement, prescribed shock scenarios and minimum capital requirements.
Strengthening standards on risk management and operational resilience
Risk Management in Technology
Operational Resilience
Policy Document (PD)
Discussion Paper (DP)
Strengthens financial institutions’ IT security
Sets out BNM’s future regulatory
and resilience against evolving
expectations for operational resilience by
cyber threats, outages and data breaches
outlining key concepts, global
through enhanced controls, stronger
developments and challenges in ensuring
oversight and improved management of
the continuity of critical financial services.
technology risks.
Climate Risk Management and Scenario Analysis PD
Incorporates climate-related disclosure requirements for financial institutions in line with the National Sustainability
Reporting Framework, to enhance climate risk management and support the transition to a greener economy.
Fostering fair outcomes to consumers and promoting trust in financial services
Revised Payment Card Requirements Financial Institution’s
Strengthens authentication methods Response to Fraud ED
and introduces new self-service Enhances coordination and ensures
security toggles, empowering timely response to fraud across
cardholders to customise their financial institutions and the broader
payment card’s safety features. ecosystem to promote user confidence.
Personal Financing PD
Prohibits the use of flat rate and/or Rule of 78 method for personal financing and requires consumers to complete a
financial education module, delivered by the financial service provider or AKPK, before applying for any personal
financing above RM100,000. This ensures fairer charging practices and supports more informed borrowing.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Supervisory Priorities and After our review, we communicate our findings
and recommendations to financial institutions. The
Approaches
aim is for financial institutions to take action to
protect customers and maintain financial stability.
BNM adopts a risk-based and forward-looking
Importantly, our supervisory activities also align
supervisory approach. Supervisory activities are
with our regulatory priorities for the year.
prioritised based on material risks that could affect
financial stability. Through on-site reviews and
off-site monitoring, we get a holistic view of how Sound management of third-party service
financial institutions are managing these risks. providers (TPSPs)
This allows us to intervene early when needed.
Additionally, we also conduct thematic reviews to To deliver their services more efficiently, financial
assess how individual institutions compare with institutions use TPSPs for a wide range of
their peers in managing broader, systemwide risks. services, including critical services such as
‑
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 27


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
IT operations and data centre management. ensure that essential services – such as access
However, dependence on TPSPs can create risks, to ATMs, account balances and payment services
particularly if a disruption at the TPSP affects a – remain secure and uninterrupted, even during
financial institution’s ability to maintain continuity unexpected disruptions.
of its services. If not properly managed, such
dependencies could have severe impacts on
Inculcating stronger Shariah operational
the financial system, thereby affecting overall
public trust. Hence, financial institutions must practices
have a strong governance and risk management
framework to uphold accountability and ensure Takaful is a Shariah-based protection that is
operational resilience. based on the principles of mutual assistance,
fairness and risksharing. During the year, we
In 2025, BNM assessed banks’ risk management reviewed how takaful operators apply Shariah
‑
practices against the principles of sound principles in their business operations. Central to
management of third-party risk (Diagram 2) this process are the Shariah Committees, who are
adopted from Basel Committee on Banking accountable for providing objective and sound
Supervision (BCBS). The review found that banks advice to Islamic financial institutions in ensuring
are generally able to manage risks associated Shariah principles are upheld across all aspects
with TPSPs, although not all systemic risks can of the institution’s operations and affairs. It is
be eliminated. To this end, we require banks to therefore important that assessments presented
continue enhancing their visibility over key nth to the Shariah Committees are rigorous to
party8 dependencies, manage concentration support robust deliberation and decision-making
risks among a few critical providers and conduct on Shariah matters. Such decisions should also
more robust continuity plans and exit strategies. be revisited periodically to ensure they remain
Ongoing efforts to strengthen these areas help appropriate as circumstances evolve.
Diagram 2: Key Areas Assessed for Sound Management of Third-Party Risk
Key Areas Assessed for
Sound Management of Third-Party Risk
Governance and Risk Assessment, Monitoring and Business Continuity
Oversight Due Diligence and Incident Response Management (BCM)
Contracting and Termination
Establish clear accountability Perform comprehensive risk Implement ongoing Maintain robust BCM to
between Board and senior assessments and due monitoring and risk ensure ability to operate in
management in managing diligence before onboarding assessment. Establish the case of disruption.
third-party life cycle, which to identify and mitigate robust incident response This is supplemented
includes strategy and potential risk. Ensure and escalation processes with appropriate and
oversight of risk comprehensive contracts to to maintain resilience proportionate exit plans
management frameworks. safeguard banks' position. and compliance. for planned/unplanned
termination.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
8 Key nth party is a service provider that is part of a TPSP’s supply
chain and supports the ultimate delivery of a critical service by
a TPSP to a bank or that has the ability to access sensitive or
confidential bank information, as defined by BCBS on principles for
the sound management of third-party risk.
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
The outcomes and expectations from the Advancing climate resilience
review were reinforced through engagements
with Shariah Committee members and Shariah Extreme weather events such as floods
heads. Importantly, these efforts help to preserve and prolonged droughts continue to affect
public confidence that takaful products remain communities and businesses across Malaysia.
Shariah compliant throughout their lifecycle. These disruptions highlight the need for financial
institutions to prepare for the growing impact
‑
of climate risk events. In 2025, we focused on
Ensuring crisis preparedness
enhancing technical expertise within financial
institutions to measure and manage climate-
Building on work that started in 2024, BNM
related risks (Diagram 3). This includes building
reviewed the remaining banks’ recovery plans
skills through specialised training in transition
to assess their readiness to manage periods of
planning, risk modelling and scenario-based
financial stress. The review found that banks
stress testing techniques. Strong climate
have considered a range of recovery options,
preparedness helps maintain financial stability
supported by clear governance arrangements
by ensuring households and businesses can
and early warning triggers to enable swift crisis
continue accessing financial services, including
response. However, there are also areas for
protection, during climate-related disruptions.
improvement. Banks need to conduct a deeper
analysis of the practicality of their recovery
options and more detailed scenario planning to Fostering fair, responsible and
reflect real-world stress events. This includes professional business conduct practices
refining timelines and conducting thorough
back-testing to ensure recovery plans work well BNM recognises the importance of financial
under stress. service providers acting responsibly and
upholding fair business practices for consumers
Recovery planning is a cornerstone of institutional to have confidence in the financial system. As
resilience. As banks’ business models, risk such, we directed our market conduct supervision
profiles and operating environment continue to initiatives to reinforce these expectations and
evolve, recovery plans must be regularly reviewed ensure that the players continue to deliver
and strengthened to remain effective. outcomes that safeguard consumer interest.
Diagram 3: Capacity Building Initiatives on Climate Risk Stress Testing (CRST)
Outcomes
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Dissemination
Capacity Building Initiatives on
Issued a comprehensive FAQ consolidating Financial institutions received
Climate Risk Stress Testing key questions from financial institutions and guidance on data sources,
01 tailored clarifications on CRST methodology modelling approaches and CRST
and reporting templates to reduce use cases, fostering shared best
uncertainties ahead of submissions. practices for submissions.
CRST Workshop
Provided insights from Cohort 11 submissions Financial institutions received
and BNM’s analysis and input from climate practical insights and actionable
02 solution providers – covering CRST knowledge for CRST submission,
methodologies and practical solutions to including on addressing gaps in
equip Cohort 22 with actionable knowledge. data or approaches.
Vendor Engagement Workshop
Showcased tools and methods for assessing Financial institutions gained
climate risks and identifying challenges in pilot clarity on vendor offerings and
03 CRST. This helps financial institutions explore group procurement options,
group procurement of preferred solution enabling informed decisions for
providers, aligned with BNM’s expectations. CRST solutions.
1 Cohort 1: Domestic banking groups, selected locally-incorporated foreign banking institutions, insurers and takaful operators
(submission by 30 June 2025).
2 Cohort 2: Other banks, development financial institutions, insurers and takaful operators (submission by 31 December 2025).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 29


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
First, we reviewed complaints handling Overall, our supervisory activities have enabled
practices relating to unauthorised e-banking early detection of key conduct risk such as
transactions. We found that the reviewed banks weaknesses in governance, controls and
have well coordinated fraud management professional standards. The findings from our
approaches. These are supported by accessible reviews above were communicated to industry
‑
reporting channels, timely case handling and players, prompting timely remediation by financial
a robust assessment framework. However, we service providers. Where significant breaches
also identified areas where fraud complaints were identified, we took firmer actions – including
can be handled better, including on the clarity of the de-registration of one adjuster – to protect
decision letters to consumers, thoroughness of consumers and uphold professional standards in
investigation and timeliness of fund recovery. the industry.
Second, we reviewed practices by
bancassurance/bancatakaful (banca) providers – Supervisory and Enforcement
a key distribution channel that allows consumers
Actions
to purchase insurance and takaful products
through their banks. This was initiated by our
observation of poor persistency rates9 within this BNM uses a range of supervisory and
channel, which could be a sign of mis-selling or enforcement actions to uphold financial stability
product unsuitability arising from weaknesses in and the integrity of our financial system. Guided
incentive structure and oversight arrangements. by BNM’s Enforcement Approach framework, we
Given that this could lead to financial strains for undertake actions that are consistent, transparent
consumers, we reviewed the level of oversight and proportionate. These actions reinforce BNM’s
exercised by the board and senior management zero-tolerance stance against financial crimes
in mitigating the risk of mis-selling or product and our commitment to protecting consumers,
mismatch. These include aligning incentives maintaining trust and upholding integrity in
with fair consumer outcomes and ensuring Malaysia’s financial system.
accountability for product design and sales
practices. The review surfaced several areas for Supervisory actions – such as warning letters,
improvement. Among others, banca providers reprimands and enforceable undertakings – serve
should enhance customer profiling to better as preventive and corrective tools. They ensure
match product offering to the different customer institutions rectify compliance gaps, improve
segments. Another area is for stronger controls governance and strengthen internal controls.
at point-of-sale to support more robust suitability Enforcement actions, such as administrative
and affordability assessments, and better monetary penalties and compounds, are imposed
telemarketing practices to prevent undue pressure for material regulatory breaches to reinforce
on consumers to purchase unsuitable products. accountability and deter misconduct.
Third, we also focused on adjusters − In 2025, BNM undertook 284 supervisory and
professionals that have a key role in ensuring enforcement actions (Chart 1), including imposing
effective service delivery and claims processing monetary penalties totalling RM15.9 million.
in the motor insurance industry. Given their role Offences were mainly related to anti-money
in the industry, it is important that adjusters laundering,11 technology risk management,
conduct their business professionally. Poor prudential standards and foreign exchange
professionalism can cause conflicts of interests policies (Chart 2).
that lead to biased decisions.10 Our review
surfaced issues such as lack of validation on A notable area for enforcement and supervisory
employees’ minimum qualifications, inadequate action in 2025 was on unplanned system downtime
conduct of regular background checks on that disrupted essential banking services. We
shareholders, CEOs and directors, as well as acted against nine banks that failed to meet the
insufficient due diligence to identify and prevent regulatory expectations we set, including imposing
conflict of interest. a total penalty of RM5.6 million.
9 Persistency rate reflects customer retention. It measures the 11 Requirements prescribed under applicable Acts and BNM’s policy
percentage of insurance policies/takaful certificates that remain in documents relating to Anti-Money Laundering, Combating the
force, without lapsing. Financing of Terrorism and Counter-Proliferation Financing (AML,
10 Example of conflict of interest is if an adjusting employee’s CFT, CPF).
spouse owns a workshop that works with insurers and takaful
operators to repair vehicles, the adjusting employee might favour
that workshop when handling claims merely to support the
business of his spouse, rather than being fair and unbiased to the
claimants.
30 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
In addition, BNM deployed 'disrupt and in preventing the financial system from being
dismantle actions' as well as 'combative actions' exploited by criminals.
(Diagram 4) against financial crimes such
as illegal deposit-taking (IDT), illegal money Consistent with BNM’s Enforcement Approach,
services business (MSB) and money laundering. we continue to uphold transparency through the
These actions aim to safeguard financial publication of enforcement actions on our website
integrity, protect public interest and ensure to deter future misconduct. This also demonstrates
reporting institutions fulfil their responsibilities our zero-tolerance for serious non-compliances.
Chart 1: Number of Actions Taken by Types of Chart 2: Number of Actions Taken by Types of
Institutions in 2025 Breaches in 2025
12 52
134 83
150 80 74
Institutions Commercial Islamic Banks
regulated by BNM Banks
Institutions not Development Investment
regulated by BNM Financial Banks
(including Institutions 0
individuals) AML/CFT/ Foreign Prudential Others¹
Digital Banks Insurers CPF Exchange
Takaful Money
Supervisory Action Enforcement Action
Operators Services
Businesses 1 ʽOthers’ refers to Business and Market Conduct and Money Services
E-Money Issuers Business-related breaches.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 4: Disrupt, Dismantle and Combative Actions in 2025
Disrupt and Dismantle Actions Combative Actions
76 Financial Consumer Alert Listings 10 Targeted raids involving illegal MSB operators
Suspected new mule accounts shared with the
25 Investigation Papers involving illegal MSB, IDT
National Scam Response Centre (NSRC) 14
and AML
74 Enquiry Papers Cases prosecuted1, involving IDT schemes,
5 illegal e-money issuers and money laundering
offences
Introduced clear definition of ‘Potential Clone Entity’ to
tackle the rise of entities impersonating regulated Cease-and-desist orders issued against illegal
institutions under BNM 4 MSB Operators
Raised public awareness through campaigns such as
Forfeiture of illicit proceeds amounting to
Amaran Scam and removed online content misusing
RM332,203
BNM’s name or logo
1 Through strategic collaboration with the National Anti-Financial Crime Centre, Royal Malaysia Police, Ministry of Domestic Trade and
Cost of Living, Companies Commission of Malaysia, Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia and Labuan Financial Services Authority.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 31


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
Building Resilience Through potential future use of quantum technology, may
render today’s security tools less effective. Without
Local and Global Partnerships
proper preparation, financial institutions will be less
able to manage cyberattacks and data breaches,
In a highly interconnected global financial
thus undermining overall financial stability. These
system, close engagements with industry ‑
partnerships reflect BNM’s strong commitment
players, government agencies and regulators are
to strengthening financial integrity, safeguarding
vital to share knowledge, strengthen supervisory
consumers and ensuring Malaysia’s financial system
capability and uphold global standards. In turn,
remains secure and trusted.
such engagements strengthen financial stability,
crisis prevention and crisis management.
Going Forward
At the global level, as part of the Mutual
Evaluation by the Financial Action Task Force
(FATF), we worked closely with international As the global financial landscape continues to
counterparts and domestic agencies to show evolve and become increasingly more complex,
Malaysia’s progress in strengthening our financial BNM remains focused on preserving financial
integrity framework.12 stability. Looking ahead to 2026 and beyond, BNM
will:
We also participated in supervisory colleges13 • continue to align prudential standards with
where we exchanged views on oversight global best practices, while tailoring them to
arrangements and shared best practices. This Malaysia’s unique financial environment;
contributes towards the strengthening of the • ensure the financial system is better prepared
global financial system. At the regional level, we to handle service disruptions, economic shocks
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and potential financial crises;
with the Bank of Thailand, which broadened • encourage responsible innovation in the financial
our cyber-cooperation network with regional sector, while managing the risks that come with
regulators. These initiatives further boost cyber new technologies;
resilience and protect against digital fraud across • factor climate-related risks into financial
regional financial sectors. regulation, while supporting more sustainable
practices and opportunities for green growth;
On the domestic front, we collaborated on areas and
to build industry-wide cyber security resilience. • uphold high standards of integrity, transparency
We hosted an event to initiate the conversation and accountability so that consumers are treated
on post-quantum cryptography strategies, fairly and the financial system remains safe and
supported by Society for Worldwide Interbank trustworthy.
Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT), Payments
Network Malaysia Sdn Bhd (PayNet) and Pusat Together, these efforts reflect our commitment to
Teknologi dan Pengurusan Kriptologi Malaysia building a financial system that is strong, secure,
(PTPKM). This encourages the financial sector inclusive and future-ready. This serves to ensure
to take initial steps to safeguard critical systems the financial sector can play its role to facilitate
against quantum-related risks. It is also timely economic growth and deliver meaningful outcomes
as advances in computing power, including the for Malaysian households and businesses.
12 For more details on Malaysia’s AML/CFT/CPF initiatives, refer
to chapter on ‘Maintaining Financial Integrity’ in BNM Annual
Report 2025.
13 Supervisory colleges is a platform that brings together groups of
home-host supervisors, with the primary objective of exchanging
information and establishing a dialogue to identify and address
the key risks across a financial group.
32 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Bridging the Gap: Affordable and Accessible Basic
Banking Services (BBS)
Access to basic and affordable financial services is essential to ensure everyone can meaningfully
participate in the financial sector. This has always been the thrust of our financial inclusion agenda.1 With
a more digital and borderless economy and financial sector, we expect to see access to and affordability
of financial services increase. Yet, some segments of our society still struggle with being able to open and
use bank accounts. These developments led us to revise the Basic Banking Services Policy Document
(BBS PD) to make banking services simpler, fairer and more accessible.
Accelerating financial inclusion through targeted eligibility of BBS
To ensure inclusion translates into real access, the revised BBS PD requires banks to offer Basic Savings
Accounts (BSA) and Basic Current Accounts (BCA) to consumers who are eligible. These are among
those who are in the unserved and underserved2 segments. This targeted approach ensures that banks
direct their resources and focus on those who need it most, giving them a practical pathway to participate
more fully in the financial system.
The revised BBS PD took a step further in requiring banks to now offer BSA to microenterprises.3 In general,
micro and small businesses are the backbone of the economy and they require the same ease of access as
individual consumers. This shift allows them to participate in the formal financial sector. Diagram 1 captures
the eligible individuals and businesses as defined in the revised BBS PD.
Diagram 1: Eligibility for Basic Banking Accounts
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
1 Financial Inclusion Framework 2023−2026 (the Framework).
2 The Framework provides a principle-based guidance in defining financially unserved and underserved segments based on six key characteristics.
These include but not limited to, those unable to conduct digital transactions or adopt digital solutions due to lack of digital literacy, capability or
connectivity, or those likely to face difficulties accessing financial products due to information asymmetry. Further details on the guidance can be
found here: Financial Inclusion Framework (2023–2026) Strategy Paper.
3 A microenterprise is defined in accordance with the Guideline for New SME Definition issued by SME Corporation Malaysia in October 2013, as
amended or modified from time to time.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 33
evobA
rednU
evobA
Individuals Businesses
(Citizens/Permanent Residents) (Incorporated in Malaysia)
Children Microenterprises
Persons with disabilities Full time students Small enterprises
Legend:
Not digitally savvy Lower/no income
Eligible for one BSA and/or BCA
Eligible for one BSA
Eligible for one BCA
Senior citizens


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
Ensuring affordability of basic banking services
Affordability is a critical part of making banking truly accessible. Beyond updating the minimum level
service standards, the revised BBS PD also ensures that individuals and microenterprises have access to
low-cost accounts.
The BSA continues to offer more affordable access to banking. The minimum initial deposit is kept low,
making it easy for those who are eligible to open a banking account. For microenterprises, affordable
access to banking reduces the need to hold cash, which raises the risk of theft or to use personal
accounts for business, making it harder to properly manage their finances. To ease this, a lower
minimum initial deposit of RM100 to open a BCA has been introduced. This change makes it easier for
microenterprises to open an account and keep business finances separate. Over time, it improves their
financial discipline, establishes a track record and opens doors to more financing opportunities. On top
of that, core day-to-day services under both BSA and BCA are now free. This ensures consumers enjoy
simple and cost-effective banking no matter how often they transact.
Diagram 2 summarises the key features of basic banking accounts pre and post revision of the BBS PD,
that sets them apart from the standard current and saving accounts (CASA).
Diagram 2: Key Features of Basic Banking Accounts Pre and Post Revision of the BBS PD
Minimal initial deposit Minimal initial deposit
(RM20 for BSA, RM500 for BCA) (RM20 for BSA, RM100 for BCA)
No service fee for BSA, capped service fee at RM10 (half-yearly) for BCA
Limited number of free over-the-counter (OTC), Free OTC, cash withdrawal
cash withdrawal and funds transfer transactions and funds transfer transactions
RM8 annual fee for unlimited ATM cash withdrawal
Free debit cards without annual fee
transactions
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Modernising BBS to meet the needs of consumers today
As digitalisation and connectivity expanded, banking has transformed from a branch-based
experience − where most transactions were done in person or at ATMs − to one that is instant, mobile,
and always within reach.
The revised BBS PD therefore ensures banks, at minimum, provide consumers with internet banking,
allowing instant fund transfers. In addition, banks now provide ATM cards that also serve as debit cards.
This allows BSA and BCA accountholders to withdraw cash for free and make e-payment transactions at
retail shops.
BNM recognises that there are still segments of consumers who rely on traditional ways to conduct
banking transactions. Some consumers, such as senior citizens, may still prefer the personal touch of
face-to-face services while those in rural communities with limited internet access will still need physical
banking touch-points. To ensure no one is left behind, free over-the-counter (OTC) transactions remain a
key feature of basic banking services. This keeps them connected to the financial system without extra
costs, preserving trust and accessibility for all.
34 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING FINANCIAL STABILITY
Beyond account access, we expect banks to always engage with consumers fairly, responsibly and
professionally. This means clearly explaining the benefits of these accounts, guiding consumers during
the account opening process, and using simple and easy-to-understand language in all interactions.
With the updated rules, BNM reaffirms its commitment to make banking simple, affordable and
accessible to all.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 35


Promoting a Progressive and Inclusive
Financial System
In 2025, we directed efforts at carrying out the concerns over the impact of global uncertainty
remaining strategies laid out in the Financial on the domestic economy, SMEs continued to
Sector Blueprint 2022–2026. These strategies obtain financing from banks and development
aim to have a financial system that is accessible, financial institutions (DFIs). The bulk of the
resilient and ready to support the country’s digital financing disbursed was for working capital as
transformation and sustainable development businesses managed cash flows amid rising cost
agenda. This means widening financing options pressures. Banks and DFIs approved RM186.7
for Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs) and billion in new financing for over 206,000 SME
microentrepreneurs, better financial skills and accounts, in tandem with demand trends.
literacy across society, and enabling responsible Outstanding SME financing continued to grow
innovation that delivers benefits safely and at by 5.9%.
scale. The year’s initiatives also include ongoing
benchmark reforms to support a smooth and
Driving SME transition through the SME
orderly transition from Kuala Lumpur Interbank
Offered Rate (KLIBOR) to Malaysia Overnight Focus Group under the Joint Committee
Rate (MYOR) and Malaysia Islamic Overnight on Climate Change
Rate (MYOR-i). This reform serves as a pre-
emptive measure to safeguard the robustness of SMEs face growing pressure to adapt to climate
Malaysia’s domestic financial benchmark. risks and meet rising sustainability expectations.
Many need clearer guidance, practical tools
and support to accelerate this transition. To
Advancing Access to Financing
bridge this gap, the SME Focus Group (SFG)
was formed under the Joint Committee on
Driving inclusive financing for SMEs Climate Change (JC3), co-chaired by BNM and
the financial industry. The SFG aims to support
Access to quality financing for SMEs is key in SMEs in embracing sustainable practices in the
building an inclusive financial system. Despite transition to a low-carbon economy.
Diagram 1: Performance of SME Financing
SME Financing Disbursements by Purpose SME Financing Applications and Approvals SME Financing Outstanding
RM billion Applications (RM billion) RM billion
160 139.5 137.5 143.5 147.5 450 5.9%
92.8 94.3 7.1% 438
90.0
120 86.1 400 414
1Q 2025 2Q 2025 3Q 2025 4Q 2025 386
80 350
Approvals (RM billion)
40 300
45.9 52.6 49.4
38.8
0 250
1Q 2025 2Q 2025 3Q 2025 4Q 2025 1Q 2025 2Q 2025 3Q 2025 4Q 2025 2023 2024 2025
Working capital Investment-related1 Total outstanding
Others Annual change
1 Investment-related purpose includes financing for the purchase of non-residential properties, residential properties for business use, fixed
assets (including cars) and construction activity.
Note: Reflects loan/financing from the banking system and DFIs.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
36 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A significant outcome from this effort was the These include those that lack credit history and
launch of the ESG Jumpstart Portal.1 The portal those operating in new or risky business areas. To
serves as a one-stop resource hub providing plug this gap, BNM has, over the years, allocated
training programmes, steps to obtain green funds to facilitate these underserved SMEs
certification, financing guides, and access to obtain financing at affordable rates. At present,
information on incentives. The portal also features BNM’s Fund for SMEs (the Funds) accounts for
practical tools such as ESG disclosure guides, a 7.4% of total SME financing outstanding, with
carbon management platform and greenhouse financing disbursed amounting to RM29.3 billion
gas (GHG) reporting standards, helping SMEs since 2020 benefitting 82,714 SMEs. In 2025, we
begin their sustainable journeys more confidently. upsized selected funds by RM2.5 billion to meet
In 2025, the SFG organised its first Climate the growing demand for digitalisation and climate
Conference for SMEs. The event brought together resilience as well as for the agrofood sector.
over 400 participants from the entire ecosystem With tourism activities gaining momentum and in
– financial institutions, government agencies, support of Visit Malaysia Year 2026, we redesigned
SMEs and sustainability service providers. SMEs the Penjana Tourism Financing (PTF) facility from a
received help in terms of practical guidance and short-term relief measure into a long-term support
sharing of real business experiences. These structure. This is aimed to help SMEs upgrade their
improved their understanding of climate-related operations, improve productivity and adopt better
risks and opportunities. business models.
Climate-related events such as heavy rain and
Targeted enhancements to BNM’s SME
floods are becoming more frequent. This requires
Funds to better meet SMEs’ needs businesses to build resilience. But such adaptation
efforts can be costly especially for SMEs. This
Banks and DFIs continue to be the main financier led us to expand the use of Disaster Relief Facility
for SMEs. While larger SMEs have ready access to (DRF), previously meant for relief financing to
financing, certain segments still face challenges. now include adaptation financing. Renamed
Diagram 2: Active Facilities under BNM’s Fund for SMEs Providing Targeted Support to SMEs
Reorientated facilities reflecting economic developments
Micro Enterprises Facility PENJANA Tourism Financing Relief and Adaptation Facility
(MEF) (PTF) (RAFt)
(Allocation: RM1 billion) (RM400 million) (RM100 million)
Enhanced Enhanced Enhanced
Encourage tourism
Microfinancing Promotes flood
business
for micro resilience
expansion and
entrepreneurs1 and relief
investment
Other active facilities
All Economic Sectors Facility Agrofood Facility Low Carbon
(AES) (AF) Transition Facility (LCTF)
(RM4.4 billion) (RM3.6 billion) (RM650 million)
All sectors,
especially younger Adoption of
Agrofood-related
SMEs and those sustainable
activities
with insufficient business practices
collateral
1 Includes self-employed, gig workers and iTEKAD participants.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
1 The portal is available at (https://imsme.com.my/jc3-esg-
jumpstart-for-smes).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 37


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Relief and Adaptation Facility (RAFt), this facility but underserved segments, and crowd in private
offers flood adaptation financing to help SMEs financing to priority sectors. These schemes will
pre-emptively manage flood-related risks and support unserved and underserved segments,
losses. Hence, aside from quick relief financing to innovation and transformation, and climate-
restore operations, SMEs are also able to finance oriented investments. The transition framework
longer-term investments to build climate resilience, is being actively shaped by reaching out to
such as flood-proofing using RAFt. The shift SME groups and associations and the financial
acknowledges the new realities faced by SMEs and community to ensure broad alignment and impact.
aim to help them become more resilient ahead of
future disruptions.
Revised framework on Skim Pembiayaan
Mikro
Shifting towards guarantee-based support
Access to sustainable financing is
Moving forward, financing will continue to important to support livelihoods and enable
complement other factors in supporting microentrepreneurs to gradually grow their
productive, sustainable and resilient SME business and incomes. The Skim Pembiayaan
growth. While the Funds have provided essential Mikro (SPM), offered by 16 participating
support over the years, a shift in approach is key financial institutions (PFIs), continues to be an
in facilitating sustainable and market-led access important platform for convenient and effective
to financing by SMEs. access to microfinancing. Since inception in
2006, SPM has supported more than 340,000
BNM is moving from direct SME microentrepreneurs (Diagram 3). In November
2024, we enhanced the scheme which began to
financing support to guarantee- show results in 2025. Microentrepreneurs are
now able to tap into more microfinance products,
based support to scale market-driven
with higher financing limit of up to RM100,000
financing for underserved SMEs and innovative features to facilitate business
growth. These include third-party guarantees
and future ready purposes such as and blended component in the form of social
funds that help lower risks and financing rates.
innovation and climate investments.
These features allow those in the informal, gig
and other underserved segments to obtain and
From 2026, BNM will transition its SME Funds afford financing. With higher financing limits,
from direct lending to a guarantee model. This shift stamp duty exemptions are also aligned to
reflects the need for scalable financing models, support affordability for these segments. To
with the financial system playing a critical role in further expand reach, the revised framework
sharing risks more effectively. Targeted guarantee places greater emphasis on onboarding digital
schemes can reduce collateral needs and support banks. Their data-driven approaches and digital
a higher number of potential SME beneficiaries. It processes remove geographical barriers and
also encourages banks and DFIs to lend to viable provide more efficient paperless financing.
Diagram 3: Empowering Microentrepreneurs: Success Story of Songkok Malaya
Songkok Malaya started in 2022, supplying and selling songkok and men’s accessories. With support
from Bank Simpanan Nasional’s SPM financing products, the business strengthened its operations
and expanded production capacity.
The financing enabled Songkok Malaya to scale output from 3,000 to 15,000 units annually and open a
second branch. Upgraded operations and stronger digital presence boosted revenue to RM508,000,
while growing market trust positioned the brand as a supplier for government agencies and selected
schools nationwide.
Songkok Malaya’s journey demonstrates how inclusive microfinancing can empower traditional craft
enterprises to scale sustainably while creating local employment and preserving cultural heritage.
Source: Bank Simpanan Nasional
38 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
As at end-2025, SPM financing outstanding iTEKAD has expanded beyond
amounted to RM2.15 billion. The scheme now
entrepreneurship support. In 2025,
offers 19 new and revised products, with eight
PFIs increasing financing limits and seven offering a risk-protection component and
guarantees or targeting new customer segments.
programmes that boost employability
Empowering vulnerable segments through were added, helping participants
social finance
build more secure and sustainable
Social finance helps vulnerable segments improve livelihoods.
their livelihoods and take part in economic
activities. For the past few years, we have worked iTEKAD began with entrepreneurship support.
with the industry to expand the use of social Today, it also offers risk protection and
finance by financial institutions. The iTEKAD employability-oriented support − iTEKAD
Entrepreneurship2 (iTEKAD) is one such example. Protection and iTEKAD Employment (Diagram
Introduced in 2020, more than 14,000 low-income 5). Together, these programmes offer a more
microentrepreneurs have been part of the initiative comprehensive approach to strengthen inclusion
(Diagram 4). and resilience.
Diagram 4: Progress and Impact of iTEKAD Entrepreneurship in 2025
14,363
(2024: 9,684)
88% > 2,400 93% 90%
(n = 4,095) (n = 4,286) (n = 4,665) (n = 4,303)
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia, participating financial institutions
2 iTEKAD Entrepreneurship is a blended social finance
programme which provides seed capital, structured training and
microfinancing. It targets low-income segments of aspiring and
existing microentrepreneurs.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 39
1SSERGORP
1TCAPMI
5,674 15 RM89.2 mil RM67.6 mil
(2024: 4,057) (2024: 14) (2024: RM63.6 mil) (2024: RM53.7 mil)
Total Microentrepreneurs Participating Social finance Financing and
microentrepreneurs2 graduated from iTEKAD financial institutions funds disbursed investments
Entrepreneurship disbursed
Based on sample of microentrepreneurs that graduated from the iTEKAD programme, n:
Business growth Employment Financial resilience Digital upskilling
Increased monthly sales New jobs created Saved up to RM4,000 of Conduct online sales
business income per month on and marketing
average
1 Data as at end-December 2025.
2 Total participants refer to the number of both ongoing and graduated participants, reflecting the total beneficiaries of iTEKAD Entrepreneurship.
Diagram 5: Expansion of Programmes under iTEKAD
• Programme enabling low-income • Social takaful scheme providing • Programme assisting vulnerable
microentrepreneurs to build and microentrepreneurs and gig workers segments to upskill and reskill,
expand their business. with affordable coverage against enabling them to secure stable jobs
accidents and natural disasters. and income.
• Microentrepreneurs are given seed
capital, structured training and access • For more information on social takaful, • Beneficiaries also strengthen financial
to microfinancing. please refer to the chapter titled resilience through relevant schemes
‘Promoting a Progressive and and products offered e.g. matching
Inclusive Islamic Financial System’. savings programme and subsidised
protection coverage.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
The government also continues to support the reached close to RM500 million, reaching first-time
iTEKAD initiative. Under the fiscal budget 2026, borrowers and gig workers. DFIs now account for
the government has allocated a RM35 million 91% of the industry’s microfinance portfolio.
matching grant to help broaden the reach of the These financing activities helped raise incomes
iTEKAD initiative and increase the impact.3 and financial resilience where more than 21,000
businesses saw growth and higher sales. DFIs'
support has also created and sustained over
DFIs as catalysts for an inclusive and
150,000 jobs.
sustainable growth
Delivering these outcomes required not only
DFIs have an important role in the nation's financing, but also stronger institutional capability
developmental agenda and in pushing for inclusive such that DFIs remain effective and focused.
development. In achieving these outcomes, a Many institutions have since set up dedicated
sound governance and accountability is crucial. teams that focus to fulfil their mandates effectively.
This includes efforts to sharpen mandate alignment Several have appointed a Chief Development
and implement high-impact strategies, which Officer whose role is to reinforce closer alignment
continue to lead to tangible outcomes in the real between developmental objectives and
economy. Outstanding financing by DFIs grew institutional strategies. Boards are also providing
5.8% to RM193.9 billion (2024: 5.6% to RM183.3 stronger oversight and cultivating a more explicit
billion), driven by higher demand across priority development-driven culture. Throughout the year,
sectors. Approvals reached 1.8 million accounts BNM also worked closely with DFIs through the
(2024: 1.3 million accounts), with financing Performance Measurement Framework (PMF)
directed to high development value areas such Working Group to enhance the framework and
as infrastructure, agriculture, MSMEs and low- improve its implementation. The updated PMF
income households. Microfinancing approvals provides clear guidance on mandate governance,
Diagram 6: DFIs’ Developmental Achievements in 2025
Financial Additionality Design Additionality
In 2025, DFIs approved financing to 1.8 million accounts including low-income individuals and businesses
in mandated sectors: More than… jobs newly
created or
150,000
Infrastructure Export Agriculture MSMEs & Co-ops Low-income sustained
RM4.9 billion RM1.7 billion RM1.3 billion RM7.3 billion RM35 billion
More than… businesses
Microfinance borrowers achieved
91% served by DFIs1 R C M lo 5 se 8 t 0 o m … il 1 C l m os i e l l t i o o … n M 6 o 3 re 0 , th 0 a 0 n 0 … M 2 o 5 re , 0 th 0 an 0 … 17,000 income growth
79% Of total household approvals Approved to Individuals Individuals newly Businesses businesses
are to the low-income2 first-time-business reached through onboarded to trained through Nearly… achieved
Growth in iTEKAD borrowers financial literacy digital banking capacity-building 5,000 upward
78% participants under DFIs programs platform programs migration3
Catalytic Developmental Initiatives
Demonstration Policy Advancing socio-economic mobility of unserved groups through
targeted rehabilitation-to-entrepreneurship pathways with relevant
Additionality Additionality
agencies e.g Jabatan Penjara.
Unlocking credit access for thin-file MEs by deploying alternative,
RM6 billion
Spearheaded CFIL’s4 launch to data-driven credit scoring models that enable more accurate
Funding crowded-in unite finance players in accelerating risk-based lending decisions.
Elevating access to collateral-free, affordable financing while
from private sector innovative climate-focused
financing in Malaysia providing risk mitigating ecosystem support for underserved SMEs
through an innovative anchor-based financing model.
Driving inclusive financial participation through blended financing
and digital innovations that enable small-scale enterprises to save
27 projects S (G te H e B re ) P d il t o h t e P G ro re g e ra n m ing m H e a a l s a l t h B e u s le in a e d s s m St o re re n , g t t r h a e n n sa in c g t s g e ig a - m w le o s rk s e ly r , f a in n a d n a c c ia ce l s s e s c lo u w ri - ty c o b s y t a c p ap p i l t y a in l. g
Supporting strategic sectors implementing agency, driving ESG behavioural insights to empower them with practical money-
and green-readiness uplift among
e.g. oil & gas, infrastructure, management tools and build long-term financial resilience.
halal SMEs
transportation, aviation
1 Based on number of accounts outstanding under Skim Pembiayaan Mikro (SPM).
2 Based on number of accounts approved in CCRIS.
3 Upward migration: informal to formal, microsmallmediumlarge, or improvements in credit rating.
4 Climate Finance Innovation Lab.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
3 The matching grant allocations for the initiative in the previous
years were RM20 million (2022), RM10 million (2023), RM25 million
(2024) and RM20 million (2025).
40 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
strategic planning, demonstrating additionality,4 through its outlets nationwide. These efforts
product design and transparent reporting. These helped narrow access gaps for smaller towns
improvements ensure DFIs remain focused on and rural communities.
delivering development outcomes.
Launch of the second National Strategy
A major milestone took place in May 2025, when
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB) for Financial Literacy 2026−30
acquired SME Bank and EXIM Bank. This marks
an important step towards a more unified and In October, the Financial Education Network
capable DFI ecosystem. The merger is expected to (FEN)9 launched the second National Strategy for
strengthen institutional capacity, improve efficiency Financial Literacy 2026-30 (NS2.0).10 Building on
and create a more impactful platform to support the first National Strategy (2019−23), NS2.0 sets
national development priorities. out five priorities that address financial literacy
needs across life stages, with a strong focus on
vulnerable groups.
Strengthening Financial
Capability and Access for The National Strategy for Financial
Meaningful Financial Inclusion Literacy 2026–30 (NS2.0) sets a
renewed vision to strengthen financial
Enhancing inclusive access across
capability, promote informed financial
physical and digital channels
decisions, and build long-term
Financial inclusion is a key pillar of BNM’s
developmental agenda. It reflects our financial resilience for all Malaysians.
commitment for all Malaysians, to have access
to financial services that support their livelihoods A Delivery Plan, to be published in 2026,
and aspirations. In 2025, 99% of mukims have at will guide implementation to scale effective
least one financial access point within 10 km. programmes, strengthen coordination and
ensure measurable impact. Behavioural
Digital financial usage in Malaysia has risen to analytics will also play a bigger role in shaping
92% in 2024 (2021: 74%).5 Our attention therefore interventions. For a start, a pilot Just-In-Time
turned towards helping Malaysians benefit Financial Education (JITFE) programme with
from digital financial services safely and in a three DFIs11 will be pursued to address over-
meaningful manner. Our aim is to build ‘cash-lite’ indebtedness. The pilot delivers timely financial
communities where people rely more on digital education at the critical decision-making point
options. Policy efforts focus on encouraging the in the financing application process to nudge
use of digital tools for budgeting, saving and consumers towards more deliberate and
managing finances. These tools help build good informed borrowing.
habits and strengthen their financial resilience.
FEN has also formed a National Coordination
While adoption grows, we are also mindful of Office (FENNCO), hosted by BNM with
underserved areas where physical access is representation from the Securities Commission
essential. This involved rolling out more agent Malaysia, Employees Provident Fund and Credit
banking, mobile banking units, MyDebit Cash Out Counselling and Debt Management Agency.12
(MDCO),6 white label self-service terminals7 and The FENNCO strengthens alignment across
Interbank Cash Deposit (IBCD).8 Pos Malaysia is agencies and ensures coordinated delivery of
also playing a role in providing cash-out services financial literacy programmes at scale.
4 Additionality refers to the distinct social and economic values 9 FEN is an inter-agency network co-chaired by BNM and
created by DFIs that would not have materialised under a fully Securities Commission Malaysia, with members comprising of
commercial environment. Ministry of Education, Ministry of Higher Education, Malaysia
5 Financial Capability and Inclusion Demand Side Survey 2021 and Deposit Insurance Corporation, Employees Provident Fund, Credit
2024. Counselling and Debt Management Agency and Permodalan
6 MDCO is a feature that allows cardholders to withdraw cash from Nasional Berhad.
their bank account at participating merchants’ POS terminals while 10 The National Strategy for Financial Literacy 2026−30 is available
making a purchase. at (https://www.fenetwork.my/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/
7 White label self-service terminal refers to a self-service terminal FEN_NS2_ENG_Interactive_FA_LowRes.pdf).
provided by a non-bank entity or a private company. 11 Refers to Bank Rakyat, Bank Simpanan Nasional and Agrobank.
8 IBCD is a facility that allows consumers to deposit cash into 12 Malaysia Deposit Insurance Corporation and Permodalan
accounts of other banks using Cash Deposit Machine (CDM) or Nasional Berhad will support FENNCO’s branding and
Cash Recycler Machines (CRM). communication by leading FEN Communications Working Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 41


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 7: National Strategy for Financial Literacy 2026–30 at a Glance
Vision
Malaysians with strong financial
capabilities to achieve financial resilience and
well-being for a secure, inclusive and sustainable future
National Strategy
Mission
2026–30 Building a financially literate and resilient Malaysian society through
inclusive, dynamic, innovative and well-targeted financial education
that is continuously delivered via a whole-of-nation approach to
cultivate the culture of informed and rational financial decision-making
Key Objectives
Elevate financial literacy Improve digital financial Enhance financial Improve financial resilience
where consumers can literacy with consumers inclusion through and well-being with consumers
make informed financial participating meaningfully equitable access to managing finances effectively
decisions suited to their and securely in the digital financial resources to withstand shocks, meet
financial needs economy and services current needs and achieve
future goals
Strategic SP1 SP2 SP3 SP4 SP5
Priorities (SP) Promote wise financial Foster smart and Secure financial future Promote safe, confident Encourage investments
planning and preparation responsible debt with risk protection and meaningful usage of for wealth creation
for retirement management digital financial services
Outcomes Malaysians understand Malaysians possess Malaysians safeguard Malaysians possess the Malaysians possess the
and apply day-to-day heightened awareness of their income, savings and necessary skills and knowledge and
money management and responsible borrowing assets against shocks knowledge to confidence to make
longer-term financial practices and effective through comprehensive strategically embrace informed investment
planning across different debt management personal financial risk opportunities and decisions, leveraging
life stages to secure strategies, leading to management and navigate risks in the both traditional and
adequate savings and healthier credit scores protection strategies, digital economy safely digital platforms, to
personal wealth, achieving including precautionary and confidently, leading foster long-term wealth
financial independence, savings and to better financial creation and financial
resilience, and insurance/takaful, for choices and improved security
sustainability, including stronger financial quality of life
during retirement resilience
Target Segments
Across life stages, Children Adolescents Youth/Young adults Adults Elderly
with focus on (5–9 years old) (10–14 years old) (15–30 years old) (31–59 years old) (>60 years old)
vulnerable segments
Economic and
Cross Cutting Lens Gender equality Mental health Climate awareness
cultural diversity
Enablers Robust research framework and Strengthened infrastructure Effective public and private sector
thought leadership facilities and secured data sharing commitment
Monitoring and A structured and systematic monitoring and evaluation framework enabling data-driven decision-making, continuous
evaluation improvement and accountability
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Scaling financial literacy through the Train reach teachers, students and communities
the Trainers Programme nationwide by equipping teachers with the right
knowledge and tools.
Teachers have important roles in schools and
communities. Alongside the Ministry of Education
Advancing inclusive access for persons
(MOE) and the Financial Industry Collective
Outreach (FINCO),13 FEN introduced the Personal with disabilities
Financial Management Train-the-Trainers (TTT)
BNM also continued efforts to support persons
Programme (Diagram 8). The Programme, delivered
with disabilities (PWD), stressing on inclusive
to 209 master trainers, comprising teachers,
access and fair treatment (Diagram 9). We
MOE officials as well as lecturers from Institut
designed our online engagements to be accessible
Pendidikan Guru across five regions nationwide.
to support both visually and hearing-impaired
The master trainers will further train teachers
groups. We have audio-friendly content, Malaysian
nationwide to build teachers’ financial literacy and
sign-language interpreters and screen-reader
confidence so they can better guide students and
compatible materials. These features make it easier
the community towards better financial decisions.
for PWDs to participate and build confidence, in
Cascading approach helps financial education
turn supporting them to make informed financial
decisions. Building on this foundation, BNM
13 FINCO helps underprivileged children and youth gain education
and life skills in four areas: English, Aspirations, Money will expand these efforts through dedicated
Management, and Disaster Relief. Supported by 107 financial programmes and partnerships to help PWDs
institutions, FINCO runs programmes that make a lasting impact
on B40 communities. navigate financial services more confidently.
42 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 8: Personal Financial Management for Teachers
1 Programme 2 Training the 3 Nationwide 4 Assessment of 5 Way forward:
Design Trainers Cascading Effectiveness Sustainability
Development of six 209 Master Trainers- Master trainers Pre- and Post- Regular refresher
modules by subject Teachers, MOE Officers completed 45 cascading Assessment training for Master
matter experts aligned and lecturers of Institute workshops, reaching Trainers – to uphold
with national strategic of Teacher Education 3,445 teachers • 86% understand and delivery standards.
priorities: selected. nationwide in 4Q 2025. confident to apply
basic financial Dedicated support
• Cashflow management Master Trainers from The cascading knowledge (+17%). platform for cascading
• Debt management respective states, programme is on track • 76% confident to activities, resource
• Personal financial risk participated in 2.5-day to reach 5,000 teachers share financial sharing and monitoring.
management training sessions held nationwide by 1Q 2026. knowledge with others
• Investment across five locations (+37%). Migration to online
• Digital Financial nationwide in 3Q 2025. learning model to
Literacy 3-month after – for TTT enhance scalability and
• Retirement Training delivered by Programme only accessibility for
subject matter experts. 58% of trainers save educators nationwide.
Structured design of more than 10% of
toolkit, delivery plans income for retirement
and corresponding KPIs. (+27%).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 9: Highlights of Financial Inclusion Initiatives for PWD in 2025 and Future Initiatives
1 Webinar on inclusive financial products and consumer 2 Financial education 3 Future initiatives for PWD segments
rights, in collaboration with Society of Blind Malaysia sessions and advisory
services for PWD
PWD Microsite
One-Stop platform for updated
financial education resources
PWD Comparative Table
Comparison tool for financial
products tailored to PWD
needs
Consumer Rights Information
Greater dissemination on
financial consumers rights and
accessibility
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Promoting inclusive financial protection eligible households receiving RM30 vouchers
offerings to purchase protection products. Stamp duty
exemptions were also extended under Budget
In the protection segment, BNM worked to 2026 to keep premiums and contributions
deepen the microinsurance and microtakaful affordable. Uptake continued to grow, supported
market. The third phase of the Perlindungan by targeted outreach and financial education
Tenang (PT) voucher programme under Budget campaigns such as the Financial Literacy Month
2025 took effect in September 2025, with and Karnival Celik Kewangan.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 43


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Facilitating market entry for financial Inclusion Monitoring and Evaluation (DIME)
inclusion Framework (Diagram 10). The framework outlines
expectations for digital banks to embed financial
By end of 2025, all five digital banks have begun inclusion into their strategies, governance
operations, marking a significant milestone for arrangements, and product design. Pilot
inclusion. Digital banks have collectively served assessments in 2025 indicated strong alignment
2.4 million customers, with total deposits of with these expectations. Digital banks have
RM4.2 billion. About 65% of customers are clear inclusion strategies, structured governance
from unserved and underserved segments, to track outcomes, and products tailored to
including low-income households, gig workers underserved segments. They also use data
and youth. Some digital banks also began analytics to serve thin-file customers,14 offer
offering small-value financing. Of the RM1 billion flexible repayment options, and provide near-
financing approved, 34% are for unserved and instant approvals, helping individuals and SMEs
underserved customers. While modest at this manage cash flow more effectively.
early stage, this performance reflects meaningful
progress in addressing unmet financial needs. BNM expects digital banks to deepen this
commitment by linking services to everyday
To strengthen accountability and ensure digital platforms, including telecommunications,
inclusion is always at the centre of digital utilities and public services. This would improve
banking, BNM introduced the Digital Bank accessibility and reach.
Diagram 10: Assessment Pillars under DIME Framework
Digital Bank Inclusion Monitoring and
Evaluation Framework (DIME Framework)
Vision: Digital banks deliver meaningful financial inclusion outcomes
Pillar 1: Ecosystem Readiness Pillar 2: Initiative and Impact
Robust capabilities to drive financial inclusion Measurable impact on financial inclusion
Governance Strategy Impact to Consumers
Improved access to affordable and suitable
financial product and services
Responsible use of financial products and
Active Board and Senior Committed to advance services
Management towards financial inclusion through
institutionalising offerings tailored for
financial inclusion unserved and underserved
across organisation customers Innovative solutions for target segments
Financially capable consumers with stronger
financial health
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
14 Refers to unserved and underserved customers who lack
documentation e.g. identity for verification, credit history,
collateral, financial track record, or insufficient data to support
pricing of risks by banks.
44 ANNUAL REPORT 2025
tnemssessA
emoctuO
cigetartS
airetirC


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Catalysing structural reforms for medical Committee (now known as Healthcare Partners
and health insurance/takaful Protocol & Solutions Committee (HPPSC) was
reactivated.18 It serves as a structured platform
In late 2024, BNM introduced interim measures15 for insurers and takaful operators (ITOs), private
to ease the impact of premium repricing on hospitals, medical professionals and consumer
policyholders16 and maintain access to MHIT interest groups to resolve common issues
coverage. By June 2025, nearly 200,000 relating to medical claims and pre-authorisation
policyholders aged 60 and above had their processes such as guarantee letters (GLs).
premium hikes deferred, and more than 15,000
policyholders managed to reinstate their policies Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Finance
without extra underwriting. The premium increase and BNM have been working closely with ITOs,
for over 90% of repriced policies due to medical medical professional groups, hospitals and
inflation was below 10%. subject-matter experts to design a base MHIT
plan19 (Diagram 12). The base MHIT plan, targeted
for pilot in 2H 2026 and full rollout in early 2027,
The rise of private healthcare costs
aims to give more people essential coverage,
and medical and health insurance/ manage healthcare costs, and support value-
based health outcomes.
takaful (MHIT) premiums has
We also made some progress on transparency
understandably raised concerns for
that aims to support better decisions by
Malaysians. In response, BNM has consumers and policy makers. For the first time,
insurance and takaful industry associations are
accelerated our focus on affordability
making price ranges for common healthcare
services available.20 Private hospitals and clinics
and long-term sustainability of MHIT.
must also now display retail drug prices. These
We pursue a two-phase approach initiatives enable patients to compare potential
costs ahead of time. New and enhanced
– beginning with measures to
consumer tools are also available, including a
Financial Education Network microsite21 and
ease immediate pressures, before
a healthcare budget planner.22 These serve
subsequently advancing work on to guide consumers in making more informed
choices. To further strengthen the evidence-
deeper, more comprehensive reforms.
based findings underpinning these initiatives, the
World Bank, together with Insurance Services
Concurrently, broader structural reforms are Malaysia, undertook a study on medical inflation
also underway. Under the RESET framework, cost drivers in MHIT claims as commissioned
initiatives (Diagram 11) are aimed at addressing by JBMKKS.
underlying drivers of medical cost inflation and
making private healthcare more sustainable, Measures are also underway to reduce
value-based and accessible for Malaysians.17 fragmentation in the healthcare system.
To support effective nation-wide coordination This involves strengthening access to and
for system level reforms, the Joint Ministerial interoperability of electronic medical records.
Committee on Private Healthcare Costs MOH is leading efforts to enable seamless sharing
(JBMKKS) was formed. JBMKKS is co-chaired of clinical data, beginning with laboratory and
by the Finance Minister II and the Health Minister. radiology results through pilot initiatives with
During the year, the Grievance Mechanism selected public and private hospitals.
15 These measures provided temporary relief through gradual 18 HPPSC is an advisory body comprising representatives from BNM,
premium adjustments spread over a minimum of three years, Ministry of Health, insurance and takaful industry associations (Life
pauses in repricing for policyholders aged 60 and above under Insurance Association of Malaysia, Malaysian Takaful Association,
minimum plans, reinstatement of policies that had lapsed due and Persatuan Insurans Am Malaysia), Association of Private
to repricing pressures, and the availability of lower-cost product Hospitals Malaysia and Malaysian Medical Association.
alternatives. For more information, please refer to (https://www. 19 For more information, please refer to (https://bnm.gov.my/web/
bnm.gov.my/-/mhit-pr). guest/-/mhitreset).
16 Any reference to insurance policy/insurance premiums/ 20 Based on insured patient data. For more information, please
policyholders includes takaful certificate/takaful contributions/ refer to the respective websites of Life Insurance Association of
takaful participants for standalone MHIT products and cost of Malaysia, Malaysian Takaful Association and Persatuan Insurans
insurance/tabarru’ for unit-deducting MHIT riders. Am Malaysia.
17 For further information, please refer to the feature article 21 For more information, please refer to (https://www.fenetwork.my/
‘Securing Sustainable Access to Medical and Health Insurance/ medical-and-health-insurance-takaful/).
Takaful Protection’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2024. 22 For more information, please refer to the respective websites
of Financial Education Network, Life Insurance Association of
Malaysia, Malaysian Takaful Association and Persatuan Insurans
Am Malaysia.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 45


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 11: Whole of Nation Approach for RESET
Strategic Thrusts
1) Develop base MHIT plan to support value-based healthcare services
R
evamp MHIT
2) Improve aids and tools for consumers to determine health insurance needs and options
3) Display of retail 4) Establish a mechanism to consistently produce,
7) Establish standards
drug prices monitor and publish key medical inflation measures
E and mechanisms for
nhance price 5) Review legislative and regulations to data collection on
transparency strengthen oversight over private hospitals, 6) Publish p rice ranges for private healthcare
support price transparency and common healthcare cost
services
Diagnosis-Related Groups (DRG) payments
S 8) Enhance the interoperability of Electronic Medical Records (EMR) to reduce duplication of diagnostic
trengthen digital
tests and procedures
health system
E 9) Implement and scale up Rakan KKM 10) Incentivise expansion of affordable private healthcare
xpand cost-effective
‘Premium Economy’ services providers including not-for-profit hospitals
options
T
ransform provider Mo1d1e) lI mDpRleGment DRG to replace existing fee-for-service provider payment mechanism
payment mechanismsDiperkenalkan secara berfasa di hospital swasta
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia and Ministry of Health
Diagram 12: Base MHIT Plan as an Anchor for Broader Reforms
Base plan will be the foundational layer of private MHIT Balancing underlying principles to achieve the base plan objectives
offerings for treatment at private healthcare facilities
It will be offered by ITOs as an option to consumers to buy the base Affordable &
plan or opt for a base plus product. Base plus products will have Accessible to
sustainable
higher cover/benefits wider
premiums in
population
the long term
Base Plan Base Plus Product
Additional Key
Benefits Meaningful principles More effective
cost-
level of
containment
protection
Base Base measures
Transparent &
easy to
Public healthcare remains as a social safety net for the public understand
Base plan targeted for market launch beginning 2027
1 Help more Malaysians get a base level of MHIT protection
End-2025 3Q2026 1Q2027 Optimise healthcare spending and reduce crowding in
Finalise product design Pilot Launch 2 public hospitals
and concept
3 Accelerate progress towards value-based health outcomes
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
46 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Establishment of JBMKKS, co-chaired by the Finance Minister II and Ministerial-level panel discussion at Sasana Symposium 2025 between
Health Minister, to enable more aligned efforts across stakeholders in MOH, MOF, BNM and World Bank
the healthcare ecosystem
In parallel, the Budget 2026 introduced incentives services.23 For private hospitals, DRG will
to expand affordable private healthcare options. form a core feature of the base MHIT plan,
Private hospitals will be allowed to set up Hospital promoting more consistent pricing and
Welfare Funds to help underprivileged patients, strengthening cost-effective containment
with donations eligible for tax exemptions. At the measures across the sector.
same time, licensing requirements for ambulatory
care and diagnostic centres are being simplified to Looking forward, BNM will continue its efforts
encourage growth of more cost-effective options through the JBMKKS. We will work closely with
for patients and policyholders. stakeholders to support broader healthcare
reforms for the country. These efforts will help us
The diagnostic-related groups (DRG) payment prepare towards the national rollout of the base
system is being developed for hospital MHIT plan in 2027.
23 A payment mechanism that replaces fee-for-service by grouping
patients based on their diagnoses and medical needs, with each
group assigned a predetermined rate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 47


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Advancing reforms in motor insurance and accidents on the North-South PLUS Highway.
takaful ecosystem The pilot was developed with Royal Malaysian
Police (PDRM), Ministry of Transport (MOT), Road
Reforms also gained momentum in the motor Transport Department (Jabatan Pengangkutan
insurance and takaful space. We helped pilot an Jalan, JPJ), National Anti-Financial Crime Centre
electronic police reporting (e-PR) system for minor (NFCC), as well as general insurers and takaful
Diagram 13: Example of an End-to-End Digital Motor Claims Journey on a Mobile App
STEP 1
Emergency
Roadside Assist
Accidents
Towing
STEP 5 STEP 2
Battery
Claims Status Towing
STEP TO TRACK CLAIM STATUS:
1. Roadside Assist: Tow Truck
2. Tow to workshop Request for DRA
3. Register claims via web and/or
4. Claims approval
5. Repair completion mobile app
CALL - 0112596589
SM Auto Workshop
No. 44 , Ground Floor, WP, Jalan Walter
Granier, Imbi, 55100 Kuala Lumpur,
Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur
Norman Max 5044
0112596589
4 minute
Keep track of claims and Monitor registered
repairs status via mobile app tow truck’s location in
and/or SMS notifications real time
STEP 4 STEP 3
Claims Workshop
Ah Kit Workshop
54, Jalan Datuk Haji
Eusoff, Setapak 55100
Kuala Lumpur,
Federal Territory of
Kuala Lumpur
0112114786
DRIVER NRIC DRIVING LICENSE
SM Auto Workshop
POLICE REPORT N Gr o a . n 4 i 4 e r , , J Im ala b n i, W 55 a 1 lt 0 e 0 r
Kuala Lumpur,
Federal Territory of
Kuala Lumpur
01125965018125996589
Sumbit
Lodge accident reports
Select preferred workshop
digitally, including online
from list of authorised
reporting to PDRM for minor
workshops, based on
accident cases via
locations or ratings
e-Reporting
Following the successful rollout of Digital Roadside Assistance (DRA) solution by all GITOs in 2024, the industry advanced steadily towards driving
meaningful take-up and usage of DRA in 2025 to enhance consumer experience and support transition towards an end-to-end digital claims journey.
Note: The above diagram is for illustration only. The actual user interface may vary across participating GITOs.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Inter-agency meeting with key stakeholders of e-Police Reporting Meeting between Governor and YB Transport Minister in 17 July
Technical Working Group. Attended by representatives from PDRM, 2025 accelerated the pilot implementation of e-PR and secured
MOT, JPJ, NFCC, industry associations and appointed vendor. The agreement to establish an interagency taskforce to jointly address
meeting successfully identified and finalised the key components of cross-cutting motor ecosystem issues
pilot run
Diagram 14: Key Reforms and Initiative to Ensure Sustainability, Affordability and Accessibility of the
Motor Insurance and Takaful Ecosystem
Managing claims costs Encouraging accident prevention Preserving access to cover
• Advocate for a ‘whole-of-nation’ • Allow for greater pricing flexibility.
• Leverage on digital solutions to improve approach. • Encourage product innovation to cater
process efficiency and prevent fraud. • Advance adoption of technologies to to varying consumer needs and
incentivise road safety habits. risk profiles.
√ Strengthened standards for motor • Promote road safety through close • Enable future pricing flexibilities
claims processes and settlements. collaboration with key stakeholders through further industry liberalisation
including Government agencies and and reforms.
√ Established a code of conduct for
industry associations.
repairers and an independent • Review the Malaysian Motor Insurance
framework to resolve disputes. • Advance adoption of telematics to Pool (MMIP) to ensure fit-for-purpose
encourage safer driving behaviours and relevance.
√ Implemented Digital Roadside
particularly amongst frequent road
Assistance (DRA) solutions for • Assess emerging mobility trends
users and pave way for risk-based
customers. including segment reviews for e-hailing,
insurance and takaful products.
electric vehicles (EVs) and micromobility
√ Rolled out e-Police Reporting Pilot at
options.
North South PLUS Highway.
• Digitise and automate claims and loss
assessment. All ongoing initiatives for motor reforms are supported by multi-year consumer
• Review of Third Party Bodily Injury education campaigns and ongoing stakeholder advocacy efforts
claims.
• Strengthen industry collaboration on
repair cost transparency and fraud
prevention.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
operators (GITOs).24 The pilot aims to simplify claims cost. A joint task force with the MOT,
reporting, streamline claims processes, reduce JPJ and Agensi Pengangkutan Awam Darat was
fraud and support the move to a fully digital motor formed in late 2025 to coordinate safety efforts
ecosystem. Diagram 13 shows the end-to-end and promote smart-driving technology that
digital claims journey for policyholders. encourage safer behaviour on the road. Work
with GITOs and e-hailing operators continued
BNM also introduced measures to manage rising to address protection gaps and keep coverage
claims and improve road safety. These efforts affordable, recognising that drivers who spend
aim to promote safer driving behaviours and longer hours on the road could face higher
reduce accident risks which will help contain accident risks.
Engagements with industry, consumer groups
24 The launch of e-PR pilot run allows road users to lodge minor and e-hailing associations also stressed the need
accident cases quickly, safely and conveniently via PDRM’s online
e-Reporting system at (https://ereporting.rmp.gov.my/). for safer driving as accident rates rise. Next,
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 49


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
BNM will improve claims processing through digitalisation while safeguarding financial stability,
automation, strengthen fraud detection via data- consumer protection and system resilience.
sharing arrangements and support wider national
road-safety efforts. BNM will also work with the BNM advanced responsible,
industry to respond to new trends, including
the growing use of electric vehicles, to support secure and interoperable innovation
affordable and sustainable motor protection.
through targeted policies and
industry collaboration – supporting
Advancing Digitalisation in
Financial Services digitalisation while safeguarding
stability and consumer protection.
Driving responsible innovation through
co-creation One of the key platforms enabling this was the
third edition of MyFintech Week, co-hosted by
BNM stays focused on promoting responsible BNM and industry partners in August 2025.
innovation to support trust, resilience and Through strategic collaboration with the Securities
efficiency in the Malaysia’s financial system. As Commission Malaysia, Asian Institute of Chartered
the landscape becomes more complex, effective Bankers, Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation,
collaboration between regulators and industry is and Fintech Association of Malaysia, the event
important to ensure new innovations are secure, brought together more than 1,000 participants
scalable, and aligned with the public interest. and 200 speakers to discuss digital innovation
In 2025, BNM advanced this work through and resilience, inclusive finance, climate action
structured engagements that strengthened and cross-border collaboration. The discussions
dialogue, built collaborative platforms, and helped shape practical action points for building
targeted policies that supported interoperable a more inclusive and future-ready financial
solutions. These efforts were aimed at driving ecosystem. Highlights are shown in Diagram 15.
Diagram 15: MyFintech Week 2025
Embrace adaptive regulation and sandbox
experiment fostering safe and impactful innovation
Responsible
Innovation
Tackle fraud and cyber
Leverage alternative data,
threats through improved
Digital Inclusive Islamic finance principles,
fraud detection tactics
Resilience Finance and targeted financial
and stronger industry
literacy to broaden access
collaboration
MyFW2025
Key Action
Points
Build long-term resilience Accelerate climate and
Digital Climate and
through skilled talent and transition finance, aligned
Talent and Transition
robust governance with Malaysia’s net-zero
Governance Finance
frameworks aspirations
Cross-Border
Collaboration
Enhance regional integration and coordinated
responses to financial fraud
>1,120 214 63 40 37
attendees from various speakers and subject sessions structured by exhibitors and sponsors solutions pitched for
segments of the matter experts from thematic insights showcasing a variety of partnership and funding
financial sector around the world across 4 days solutions opportunities
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
50 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Artificial intelligence (AI) is gaining traction in knowledge-sharing, and supporting talent
the financial sector. We saw more financial development. Public awareness efforts through
service providers (FSPs) in Malaysia adopting education and financial literacy programmes
AI to strengthen customer analytics, enhance will also be strengthened. These measures aim
operational efficiency and improve risk to ensure that AI adoption enhances financial
management across Malaysia’s financial sector.25 services in ways that deliver real value, such
To further support responsible innovation, as stronger fraud detection, better customer
BNM issued a discussion paper outlining our experience, and improved risk management.
regulatory and development approaches on
AI. The public consultation was completed in Alongside AI, BNM also advanced work on
October 2025 and a feedback statement will be frontier technologies that can reshape financial
released in 2026. Additionally, the Chief Risk services. One key area is the industry exploration
Officers Forum of the Asian Institute of Chartered of asset tokenisation. In October 2025, we issued
Bankers launched the AI Governance Framework. a discussion paper explaining BNM’s approach
This industry-led framework provides best and seeking industry feedback on potential use
practices for managing AI risks and supports cases, proof-of-concepts and pilot initiatives.
greater harmonisation of responsible AI To support this work, BNM launched the Digital
standards across the sector (Diagram 16). BNM Asset Innovation Hub (DAIH) as the main
welcomes this development and encourages platform for collaboration, capacity building,
other sectors, including insurance and takaful, to and testing tokenisation use cases. Under the
develop or align with complementary guidelines DAIH, BNM also set up the Asset Tokenisation
suited to their respective needs. Industry Working Group to coordinate knowledge
sharing and joint experiments. More details on
Looking ahead, BNM will continue to promote these initiatives can be found in the chapter on
responsible AI use by developing industry ʽPromoting Safe and Efficient Payments and
guidelines and best practices, facilitating Remittance Servicesʼ.
Diagram 16: Summary of Responsible AI Principles under the AI Governance Framework
Fairness Ethical Accountability Transparency
• AI-driven decisions do not • Use of AI complies with all • Board and senior management • Use of AI is sufficiently
discriminate or create harmful relevant laws and regulations. are accountable for all AI disclosed and communicated
bias against any individual or strategies and outcomes. to those affected where
group of individuals. • Use of AI is aligned to the appropriate, commensurate to
financial institution’s corporate • An appropriate, competent level of materiality, without
• Differential treatments values, ethical standards and internal authority approves use revealing proprietary or
between different individuals code of conduct. of AI for decision-making. security-critical information.
or groups of people should be
justifiable. • Financial institutions are
accountable for both internally
• The use of personal attributes developed and externally
as input factors for AI-driven sourced AI applications.
decisions should be justifiable.
Explainability Reliability Security
• There should be sufficient level of • Trained AI models are adequately tested • Maintain privacy, data protection, and
explainability over the underlying design and validated to ensure accuracy, security throughout the data lifecycle, by
and intent of AI applications,commensurate relevance, and robustness in handling employing robust data governance and
to the level of materiality, without revealing errors, invalid inputs, or stressful management.
proprietary or security-critical information. conditions for deployment and ongoing
use. • Implement appropriate controls and
• AI systems processes should be well- security measures to ensure the robust
documented and traceable, with clear and security and resilience of AI systems and
understandable records of decisions, protect against new threats.
datasets and processes used to yield the
systems’ decisions. • Comply with relevant laws and regulations
and implement appropriate controls
• When explainability is limited or difficult, where possible to protect data.
it should be supported by valid justifications.
Source: Chief Risk Officers’ Forum and supported with the Chief Information Security Officer’s Forum of the Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers
(AICB)
25 As reported in the Artificial Intelligence in the Malaysian financial
sector discussion paper 2025, more than 70% of FSPs in Malaysia
have implemented at least one AI application in their operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 51


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
In November 2025, BNM issued an exposure draft in progress, with wider industry participation to
on open finance, setting out requirements for support smooth adoption across the sector. As
safe and consistent data-sharing practices. The digital threats such as deepfake technology grow
draft proposes that designated financial service more advanced, coordinated action across the
providers offer open finance services, supported ecosystem will be important to preserve trust and
by strong consumer-consent mechanisms and system integrity.
safeguards for data protection. Open finance
gives customers greater control over their financial The Financial Technology Regulatory Sandbox
data. With clear consent parameters on what also continued to support safe testing of new
data is shared, with whom, for what purpose, ideas. In 2025, two Green Lane initiatives focused
and for how long, customers can make more on solutions that improve inclusion, such as
informed decisions and access financial products income estimation models and electronic Know-
tailored to their needs. Beyond empowering Your-Customer (e-KYC) processes for foreign
customers, open finance also promotes more workers. These efforts help expand access
secure and standardised data-sharing paving the and improve efficiency. The Sandbox will keep
way for data-driven innovation as illustrated in supporting the testing of high-impact innovations
Diagram 17. To prepare the ecosystem, BNM is in a controlled setting.
working closely with PayNet and the industry to
develop the necessary infrastructure. PayNet has
formed a pilot group with major banks and the Deepening Financial Markets
EPF to test high-impact use cases that can deliver
tangible benefits to customers. These steps move BNM continued to advance reforms in Malaysia’s
Malaysia closer to a secure, inclusive, and trusted financial markets. While markets continued to
open finance framework. function smoothly, the enhancement of domestic
benchmark rates will further safeguard their
integrity. Working closely with the industry, BNM
Enhancing key enablers for innovation supported initiatives aimed at strengthening
benchmark rate reforms and improving market
Strengthening key enablers for innovation is another infrastructure. In October 2025, we announced
priority. MyDigital ID continued to play an important plans to transition from KLIBOR to MYOR and
role in advancing the country’s digital economy. MYOR-i,26 supported by a three-year roadmap
By 2025, financial institutions had completed with clear timelines and milestones. This transition
Phase 1 of Sandbox testing, helping to build a will affect individuals and businesses with existing
trusted national digital identity. Phase 2 is now KLIBOR-based loans or financial products.
Diagram 17: Open Finance Use Cases and Benefits
Fully digital submission and transmission
Single account view, including personal Credit underwriting through
of documents in lieu of manual processes
financial management real-time and accurate financial information
(e.g. email and webform)
Benefits for consumers Benefits to financial industry
Improved user Opportunities to
Financial inclusion Better informed Operational Risk management
experience and grow business and
and access customer decisions efficiency and fraud detection
convenience partnerships
*
Note: Use cases listed are for illustrative purposes only and are not exhaustive nor indicative of endorsement from BNM.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
26 The official press release on the transition is available at (https://
www.bnm.gov.my/-/klibor-to-myor).
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 18: Efforts to Ensure a Smooth and Orderly Transition
1 Publication of transition roadmap
Sets out ke y timelin es and milestones to accelerate the adoption of MYOR/MYOR-i
Establishment of industry-led Working Groups
Facilitate a coordinated transition overseen by the KLIBOR Transition Coordination Sub-committee along with four Working
Groups, established under the FMC
3 Dedicated transition subpage on FMIP
Serves as a c entral p latform for all communication s and updates related to the transition
4 Publication of compounded MYOR/MYOR-i and indices
Serve as standardised references for market participant to support MYOR/MYOR-i adoption
5 Market engagement and capacity building
Promote awareness on the transition through outreach and educational campaigns
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
The shift to a benchmark that is anchored in environment, with added safeguards such as
transaction-driven market data means loan one-time password (OTP) verification. ROMS
pricing will become fairer and transparent. This upgrades began with Phase 1 in December
transition also aligns with global benchmark 2025, focusing on foreign exchange market
reforms and supports the Financial Sector reporting, while Phase 2 covering money market
Blueprint 2022–2026 by strengthening the reporting is scheduled for rollout in the third
credibility of Malaysia’s financial benchmarks and quarter of 2026.
moving towards a more transparent, transaction-
based reference rate.
Going Forward
Diagram 18 outlines the efforts to support a
smooth and orderly transition. These efforts will In our pursuit to build an inclusive and
continue, with regular updates provided to market progressive financial system, we have set several
participants via the Financial Markets Committee priorities for 2026. These include accelerating the
(FMC).27 transition to guarantee schemes to help SMEs
access financing more easily and promoting
Another focus area relates to financial market responsible innovation to close gaps in access
infrastructure development where key systems and protection. Expanding financial literacy
were upgraded to enhance market resilience and programmes will help to empower households.
operational readiness. These include modernising Reforms in insurance and takaful will continue
the Fully Automated System for Issuing/Tendering to ensure affordability and sustainability.
(FAST), the Institutional Securities Custodian Digitalisation will advance securely through
Programme (ISCAP) and the Ringgit Operations open finance, strong AI governance and trusted
Monitoring System (ROMS). In 2025, BNM digital identity systems. Success will depend on
launched the FAST Modernisation Project, a multi- collaboration across industry and government.
year effort to transform FAST into a future-ready On this front, we will continue to work with
platform with modular architecture, API integration partners to strengthen climate resilience, protect
and cloud-based scalability. Both FAST and vulnerable groups, and build a financial system
ISCAP have already migrated to a secure cloud that is future-ready, inclusive and trusted.
27 For more details, refer to our box article on ‘Transition from
KLIBOR to MYOR / MYOR-i’ in BNM’s Financial Stability Review
for First Half 2025 available at (https://www.bnm.gov.my/
documents/20124/19635466/fsr25h1_en_box1.pdf).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 53


PPrroommoottiinngg aa PPrrooggrreessssiivvee aanndd IInncclluussiivvee
IIssllaammiicc FFiinnaanncciiaall SSyysstteemm
Malaysia’s Islamic financial system is Thrust 1: Advancing value-based
a core pillar of our economy. As such, intermediation for social and
economic impact
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM)
continues to champion value-based Islamic finance is built on the objectives
(maqasid)1 of Shariah. These objectives
finance that delivers meaningful
build on values such as fairness, equitable
impact and socio-economic wealth distribution and shared responsibility.
Value-Based Intermediation (VBI) puts these
outcomes. This is anchored in values into practice. For Islamic financial
institutions (IFIs), this means to operate and
fairness, shared prosperity and real
create positive and lasting impacts instead
economy value creation. In 2025, our of just focusing on profit. In 2024, IFIs
intermediated RM148.6 billion2 into VBI-aligned
work centred on three key strategic activities including for SMEs and green financing,
as well as social finance activities. This shows
thrusts. These are advancing value-
how VBI places people and the real economy
based innovation, strengthening at the centre of financial intermediation. In
building stronger impact, BNM introduced
the Islamic finance ecosystem, and initiatives to nurture meaningful innovations to
support national priorities (Diagram 3). We also
retaining Malaysia’s position as a
directed efforts to improve understanding of
global leader in the field. Together, Islamic finance and build industry capabilities in
exploring innovations.
we sustain a progressive and
inclusive Islamic financial ecosystem Fostering sustainable practices for halal
businesses
that contributes to the economy and
broader society. Increasingly, Malaysian halal businesses
must consider environmental aspects in their
operations to stay competitive globally. For SMEs,
Resilient growth in Islamic banking and this means meeting international green standards
takaful and certifications, which is typically costly and
challenging. The Greening Halal Businesses (GHB)
Throughout the year, Islamic finance deepened its initiative supports SMEs by providing carbon
role in serving Malaysians. Islamic financing rose tracking tools and guidance. With the support
to 48% of total financing and takaful participation of eight IFIs, over 200 halal SMEs have begun
reached 24.5% (Diagram 1). This growth reflects adopting greener practices. The programme
how Islamic finance continues to meet the changing remains open for others to join.3 Early adopters
financing and protection needs of households and are better placed to access new markets and
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) (Diagram 2). obtain preferential procurement from buyers.
1 The five main objectives of Shariah (maqasid Shariah) consist
of the preservation of religion, life, intellect, lineage and wealth
(property).
2 VBI-aligned initiatives refer to deposits and investment accounts,
financing, investment and social finance activities. For financing
portion, this refers to the approved amount of financing by banks
that are VBI-aligned.
3 Further information at (https://www.bnm.gov.my/sme-financing/
ghb).
54 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 1: Key Financial Indicators
Islamic banking Financing¹ Deposits and investment accounts (IA)¹
Market share 7.7% Annual Growth Market share 5.9% Annual Growth
Total capital ratio
Conventional: 1.6% (Overall2: 4.4%) Conventional: 4.3% (Overall2: 5.0%)
18.3%
RM billion RM billion
Conventional: 17.6% 48.0% 43.6%
2025 1,219.8 2025 1,082.7 185.7
2024 1,133.0 2024 1,029.0 168.9
Islamic IA
deposits
Takaful Fund assets³ Net contribution
Capital adequacy Market share 9.4% Annual Growth Market share 5.6% Annual Growth
ratio
Insurance: 4.9% (Overall2: 5.5%) Insurance: 2.0% (Overall2: 2.9%)
224.5%
14.4% RM billion 24.5% RM billion
Insurance: 224.6% 2025 5516.6.5 8.7 2025 15.1 5.0
2024 51.6 8.0 2024 14.5 4.5
Family General Family General
1 Includes development financial institutions.
2 Annual growth for overall sector refers to combination of Islamic and conventional sectors.
3 Not inclusive of the shareholders’ fund assets.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 2: Summary of Key Islamic Finance Initiatives and Contributions
Key initiatives in line with the desired outcomes of Islamic finance contributions
the Financial Sector Blueprint 2022-2026
Financial inclusion

• Continued implementation of value-based intermediation.
19.7%
 • Empowered businesses via Risk-Sharing Fund i-CITA, (2024: 19.6%)
Advancing Greening Halal Business, and iTEKAD Protection. Family takaful 13.3%
value-based (2024: 13.9%)
penetration rate
finance
MSMEs financing
• Mandated the use of Malaysia Islamic Overnight Rate growth
(MYOR-i) starting from 2H 2027.
Supporting the economy
• Issued Policy Document on Broader Application of
Conducive Ta`awun in Takaful and published working paper on 7.9%
environment fundamentals of modern money – a foundational basis (2024: 8.9%)
for market for further innovations. 9.7%
development Household financing (2024: 8.2%)
growth
• Formation of MIFC Business Networ.k. RM160 billion Business financing
growth
(2024: RM194 billion)1
• Curated Islamic Finance Capacity Building Programme
0.9%
to support global ecosystem development via capacity Sukuk issuance for
(2024: 0.9%)
Malaysia as an building. funding economic activity
international
gateway for • Centralised Shariah Authorities Forum to foster mutual Share of Malaysia’s
Islamic finance Shariah recognition across jurisdictions.
GDP2
1 Lower government sukuk and bond issuance in line with reducing goverment fiscal deficit.
2 Based on the amount of net income of Islamic financial institutions compared to the total GDP. For Islamic banks, net income includes net
profit margin and service charges, whereas for takaful operators, it includes net premium income and investment income (minus claims paid).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia, Department of Statistics, Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 55


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 3: Key Innovations
Greening Halal Businesses (GHB) Risk Sharing Fund i-CITA iTEKAD Protection
 Empowers halal SMEs to adopt  Boosts use of risk-sharing instruments by  Enhances financial resilience
sustainable practices. Islamic banks. for microentrepreneurs.
 Drives green transformation  Supports growth of food security, climate and  Adopts blended approach to
to increase export potentials. other sectors with non-debt instruments. increase affordability.
RM15 million RM100 million RM5 million
Government Grant Government Funding Government Grant
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Catalysing the growth of risk-sharing Strengthening financial wellbeing
instrument offerings
In 2025, we expanded iTEKAD to include iTEKAD
Islamic finance goes beyond provision of credit. Protection,5 a social takaful solution. The aim
There are instruments based on risk-sharing is to make protection more affordable and
contracts that allow investors and entrepreneurs provide easier access for microentrepreneurs
to share risks and returns. Such instruments (Diagram 4). Rooted in the takaful principle
provide more diverse risk and reward contractual of ‘mutual assistance’, four takaful operators
obligations. For instance, economic activities committed to pilot iTEKAD Protection at its launch
with longer horizons and unpredictable during the Global Islamic Finance Forum (GIFF).
cashflows such as climate-transition projects In December 2025, two takaful operators began
cannot rely on traditional debt alone which rolling out their offerings. These efforts show
usually is used to finance projects with more the continued commitment of BNM and IFIs to
predictable cashflows or lower risk profiles. For strengthen social safety nets and support wider
such activities, equity-based contracts may be economic participation.
a better fit. With this in mind, BNM launched
the i-CITA programme in September 2025. It
promotes wider use of risk-sharing contracts,
such as mudarabah and musyarakah. Through
RM100 million of matching funds,4 i-CITA has
the potential to improve funding access for new
viable ventures. The programme encourages IFIs
to develop innovative risk-sharing solutions that
channel investments into key economic areas
such as food security and climate resilience.
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour on stage with participating iTEKAD
Protection takaful operators and implementation partners at the Global
Islamic Finance Forum 2025
4 Further information in Budget 2025 Speech (paragraph 154) at 5 Further details on iTEKAD can be found in the chapter ‘Promoting
(https://belanjawan.mof.gov.my/pdf/belanjawan2025/ucapan/ a Progressive and Inclusive Financial System’ in BNM’s Annual
ub25-en.pdf). Report 2025.
56 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 4: Social Takaful and its Benefits to Participants
Social Takaful
Protection scheme for Blended finance from Mutual assistance to
unprotected group. public and private unlock full potential of
capital to fund takaful takaful.
contribution.
Successful use case
1 Provides financial 2 Takaful contribution from 3 Value added offerings e.g. risk
protection and resilience philanthropic and government prevention services and training
against risks to livelihoods. funds, on top of participants’ to enhance financial wellbeing.
contribution.
Target Goods Delivery Participants of Inisiatif
Microentrepreneurs
Segment Personnel Pendapatan Rakyat (IPR)
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Thrust 2: Sustaining a conducive investment accounts. By working closely with the
industry, this will continue to keep the regulatory
ecosystem for market
frameworks robust, transparent and adaptable to
development market developments.
We adopt a whole-of-ecosystem approach
Deepening Islamic financial market
to support progressive and inclusive growth.
This includes providing a conducive regulatory
A sound regulatory foundation must be
environment, deepening the Islamic financial
supported by clear policy roadmaps and strong
market, and ensuring Shariah certainty in Islamic
market readiness. We made further progress
financial practices. BNM also continued efforts to
in implementing key policies for the Malaysia
futureproof the Shariah ecosystem. This is done
Islamic Overnight Rate (MYOR-i)6 and Islamic
through research, talent development and public
collateralised funding. Through these policies, we
understanding of Islamic finance.
intend to:
Conducive regulatory environment  Introduce more transparent Islamic product
pricing and benchmark transition. We will
In November 2025, BNM issued a Policy be mandating the use of MYOR-i for Islamic
Document on Broader Application of Ta`awun in products beginning the second half of 2027.
Takaful to strengthen the use of mutual assistance This supports the broader transition away
in the takaful industry. The goal is for takaful from the Kuala Lumpur Interbank Overnight
operators to explore solutions that support Rate (KLIBOR) to MYOR/MYOR-i.7 As MYOR-i
access to protection by certain segments in the reflects actual overnight Islamic interbank
economy. In line with the value-based framework, placements, it provides a benchmark that is
such mutual support can help build financial reflective of Shariah-compliant market activity.
resilience for all segments of society. Our intent This shift is expected to make pricing more
is for Islamic finance to not only promote financial transparent and support an end-to-end Shariah-
protection, but also a culture of shared support, compliant solution for IFIs.
so that the benefits of Islamic finance can reach
those who need them. 6 MYOR-i is the world’s first transaction-based Islamic benchmark
rate, introduced in 2022 as alternative reference rate, alongside its
conventional equivalent, the Malaysia Overnight Rate (MYOR).
We are also currently reviewing industry 7 BNM announced the transition roadmap in October 2025 to
feedback on the Shariah Contract Framework accelerate the financial industry’s adoption of MYOR/MYOR-i,
following the cessation of KLIBOR by 1 January 2029. Further
and Investment Account discussion papers.
information is in the chapter ‘Promoting a Progressive and
These reviews aim to provide clear and practical Inclusive Financial System’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2025, (https://
financialmarkets.bnm.gov.my/transition-roadmap) and BNM’s
guidance. This ensures that Shariah principles
Financial Stability Review for First Half 2024 box article titled
are effectively applied in financial contracts and ‘Transition from KLIBOR to MYOR/MYOR-i’.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 57


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
 Enhance operational readiness and risk Building a futureproof Shariah ecosystem
management. Several Islamic banks signed
two Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs)8 As financial innovation accelerates, deeper
to improve the use of secured Islamic money understanding of emerging issues is needed to
market and hedging instruments. These MOUs maintain Shariah certainty. This means clear,
standardise market practices, which support authoritative and consistent guidance are necessary
better liquidity management, more reliable on what is allowed in Islamic finance. New tools,
hedging, and smoother day-to-day operations, such as digital assets and other emerging financial
in line with global standards. tools are expanding how markets work and raise
questions that require careful Shariah assessment.
To stay ahead, BNM is focusing on Shariah
Providing Shariah certainty in Islamic
research and talent development as key elements
financial practices of a futureproof ecosystem.
Clear Shariah guidance builds confidence and In July 2025, BNM released a Working Paper
trust in Islamic finance. The Shariah Advisory on ‘Fundamentals of Money and its Application
Council (SAC) continues to provide clear to Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC): An
guidance on what is permissible in Islamic Exploratory Shariah Analysis’. The paper sets out
finance. Its decisions anchor our regulatory the foundational understanding of what money is
framework and ensure that new market practices and how it works in modern economic systems. It
and policy developments are aligned with offers a framework to guide Shariah deliberation on
Shariah expectations. During the year, SAC new financial innovations, including digital assets,
decisions enabled new solutions such as istisna`- stablecoins and CBDCs.9 This analytical groundwork
based inventory purchase and salam-based also paved the way for broader regional engagement
agriculture financing (Diagram 5). on emerging monetary issues (refer to Thrust 3).
Diagram 5: Key SAC Deliberations 2025
Inventory purchase based on • Approved inventory purchase with two istisna` supported by wakalah and corporate
parallel istisna`1 guarantee by the customer on the performance of end buyer.
• Approved paddy financing involving istibdal (substitution of salam commodity) against
Product Financing for paddy cultivation money as an effective solution guided by certain conditions to address the
Innovation based on bai` salam2 non-delivery of paddy.
• Discussed the guiding principles for exploring new takaful operational model using
Broader application of
various Shariah contracts and utilisation of distributable surplus for broader
ta`awun in takaful
socio-economic outcomes.
• Discussed maqasid Shariah (objectives of Shariah) and muqtada `aqd (inherent nature of
Policy Strengthening Shariah contracts) – part of holistic efforts in promoting innovations with diversified Shariah
Development contract framework contracts.
Hajah application for • Permitted the temporary and proportionate use of insurance coverage to protect
corporate insurance coverage corporate risks under clear hardship (hajah type 2).
• Decided that cash withdrawal fee shall be based on actual costs, and annual fee is
Industry Fees for Islamic credit card permissible if charged for bundled benefits, not tied to monetary benefits (e.g. cashback).
Practices
Shariah • Considering siyasah syar`iyyah Profit
• Prohibited the recognition of
considerations (Shariah-based public policy), derecognition
profit from working capital
in macro- public interest and legal capacity in financing to
financing for non-halal
resolution of IFIs throughout the resolution non-halal
National actions action. Shariah Non business business.
Interest Compliance
1 Istisna` is a sale contract by way of order for certain product with certain specifications and mode of delivery and payment (either in cash
or deferred).
2 Salam is a sale contract based on order of certain asset with certain specifications. Full payment is made in cash at the time of conclusion
of the contract whereas the delivery of the asset is deferred to a specified time.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
8 The enhanced Sell Buy Back Agreement (SBBA) and the 9 Further information at (https://www.bnm.gov.my/
Tahawwut Master Agreement (TMA) signed during the documents/20124/826852/ahmad-et-al-2025-wp325.pdf).
Islamic Financial Market Sub-Committee (IFMC) roundtable.
Further information is available at (https://www.bnm.gov.my/
documents/20124/11285645/ifmc-2025-milestones-trends.pdf).
58 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A futureproof ecosystem also means to have Thrust 3: Positioning Malaysia as
strong pool of Shariah talent. In October 2025,
global thought leader
BNM convened a roundtable that brought
together internationally prominent Shariah
scholars and experts10 to exchange views on We continue efforts to position Malaysia as
key Shariah issues. This includes using Shariah a global thought leader in Islamic finance.
contracts beyond tawarruq and the role of This builds on a solid ecosystem and steady
Shariah advisors in shaping the industry. The market progress. Our priorities for 2025 include
session helped build stronger relationships strengthening business linkages, promoting
and encouraged mentorship, supporting the mutual Shariah recognition, accelerating
development of Shariah talent ecosystem. innovation and building global capabilities
(Diagram 6). Through these efforts, Malaysia aims
to build a more connected and progressive global
Broadening Islamic financial literacy Islamic finance ecosystem.
outreach
Strengthening industry stewardship
Financial literacy helps customers understand
the features and values of Islamic finance. It also
The regulators including BNM have played a key
helps boost public confidence by understanding
role in the early development phase of Islamic
how Shariah principles and governance protect
finance in Malaysia. As the industry now being more
integrity of the system. For the first time this
mature, it is time for them to drive key agendas for
year, we included Islamic Financial Literacy (IFL)
programme in the Karnival Celik Kewangan11 in the Malaysia International Islamic Financial Centre
(MIFC). To support this, industry players formed the
Pulau Pinang. Through the IFL forum and the
Shariah Clinic,12 consumers received practical MIFC Business Network (MBN) in October 2025. It
serves as a sector-wide coordination platform for
guidance on Islamic finance and basic wealth
players in the banking, takaful, capital market and
management. This support helps them take part
ancillary services. The MBN can better coordinate
in the system more confidently and responsibly.
efforts to draw interest on Malaysia’s Islamic finance
business opportunities, positioning Malaysia as an
international gateway. It also supports efforts to
develop and nurture the industry into regional or
global players. MBN builds on the foundation laid
by the MIFC Leadership Council (MLC) where 18
identified Impact Projects13 have already catalysed
early progress toward these outcomes (Diagram 7).
Driving value-based innovation
Malaysia partners with global counterparts
to drive innovation that addresses social
and sustainability needs. With the theme of
‘Accelerating Innovation Empowering Change,’
BNM and the MLC worked with global14 and
Panellists of IFL Forum including Deputy Governor Adnan Zaylani
domestic15 partners for the MIFC Global Impact
Mohamad Zahid (second from the right), Mufti of Wilayah Persekutuan
Ustaz Ahmad Fauwaz Fadzil (in the middle), and SAC member of BNM Challenge (MIFC GIC). Through this challenge,
Dr. Ahmad Basri Ibrahim (first from the left)
participants developed Shariah-compliant
solutions targeting social and sustainability issues.
10 Shariah experts are developing and established Shariah 13 The Impact Projects as outlined in MLC Position Paper 2024
professionals who are progressively building expertise, exposure, aim to drive collective actions and shifts by the industry
and practical experience in Islamic finance. They display potential to foster positive societal change through Islamic finance.
as the next generation of Shariah scholars in Islamic finance. Further information at (https://mifclc.com/main/wp-content/
11 Karnival Celik Kewangan is an initiative by the Financial Education uploads/2024/05/MIFC_Positioning_-Paper.pdf).
Network (FEN), aimed to enhance financial literacy among 14 Islamic Finance Council UK, Hong Kong Trade Development
Malaysians through engaging and interactive approaches. Further Council, Islamic Development Bank, and the World Bank Group
details can be found in the chapter ‘Engaging Malaysians’ in Inclusive Growth and Sustainable Finance Hub in Malaysia.
BNM’s Annual Report 2025. 15 ASBhive by the Asia School of Business acted as the knowledge
12 The forum refers to a panel discussion entitled ‘Berkat Rezeki, partner and accelerator programme provider. Other partners are
Tenang Jiwa – Memahami Kebimbangan Pengurusan Kewangan Fintech Association of Malaysia, Association of Shariah Advisors
dari Perspektif Islam’ which explores how Islamic principles guide in Islamic Finance and Islamic Finance News.
financial decisions-making. Shariah Clinic provides a consultation
booth offering on-the-spot guidance on Shariah and Islamic
finance matters.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 59


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 6: Key Initiatives in 2025
MIFC Business Network Centralised Shariah Authorities Forum
A platform to drive industry ownership, Formalised CSAF Terms of Reference
cross-sector innovation, and new to stren gthen governance and
business opportunities. coordination among members.
Strengthen Aims to implement and execute projects Promote Mutual Knowledge sharing on emerging Shariah
Business and initiatives for the next stage of MIFC Recognition issues in takaful, social finance and
Linkages agenda. in Shariah CBDC.
Islamic Finance Capacity Building Programme MIFC Global Impact Challenge
Advanced cross-border value-based
Strengthened technical capacity in
innovation and accelerated sustainable
Central Asian countries and Azerbaijan.
growth initiatives.
Enabled regional growth by expanding Awarded four winners with post-program
Build Global and tailoring capacity-building Accelerate support for scaling value-based solutions
Capabilities programs for diverse markets. Innovation globally.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 7: MIFC Next Chapter: Tactical Shift in Realising Business Outcomes
MIFC Leadership Council (MLC) MIFC Business Network (MBN)
(2022 – Oct 2025) (Oct 2025 – going forward)
• Laid foundations in the MIFC agenda. • Actual business execution.
✓ Set out strategic direction of IF via MLC Position Paper. ✓ Securing tangible business outcomes.
✓ Spearheaded collaborations with global partners. ✓ Scaling impact in Malaysia and beyond.
• Led by prominent leaders from public and private sectors. • Industry-led platform.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
The four winning ideas covered social welfare, matters. By hosting and steering CSAF, Malaysia
estate planning, agritech and digital platforms. brings together leading Shariah authorities to
These solutions enhance transparency, improve share insights, address emerging issues and
efficiency and empower communities. The MLC enhance collective understanding. The 6th CSAF,
and MIFC GIC partners provided support and held in October 2025, marked another important
guidance to winners, over a 12-month period, on milestone where the CSAF Terms of Reference
how to scale up their solutions for wider adoption. (ToR) was finalised. This further strengthened the
This collaboration showcases Malaysia’s role in governance framework and coordination among
encouraging practical, value-based innovation member countries. It also fostered deeper mutual
that can benefit the wider Islamic finance respect among Shariah authorities.16 Discussion
community globally. areas include thematic and jurisdictional Shariah
developments such as takaful practices and
modern money.
Promoting greater cross-jurisdictional
Shariah advocacy Building on this momentum, further discussion
continued at the Muzakarah Cendekiawan
We value diversity in Shariah views as robust Syariah Nusantara 2025 in Bangkok. These
discourse allows for clearer guidance and sessions broadened understanding of digital
stronger industry practice. In this context, asset development and supported deeper
the Centralised Shariah Authorities Forum cross-jurisdictional Shariah discussions. They also
(CSAF) continues to serve as a key platform strengthened our role in shaping global Shariah
to strengthen global collaboration in Shariah perspectives on emerging financial innovations.
16 Include delegates from ten jurisdictions including Malaysia (Libya,
Maldives, Morocco, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, the Philippines,
United Arab Emirates and Uzbekistan (as observer)).
60 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
MIFC Global Impact Challenge Demo Day at Sasana Kijang, Kuala Lumpur International delegates attending the 6th CSAF meeting in Kuala Lumpur
Deputy Governor Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid (fourth from the right) Welcoming representatives from Central Asia countries and Azerbaijan
presented the research paper at the Muzakarah Cendekiawan Nusantara during the Islamic Finance Capacity Building Programme
finance ecosystems. It also allows us to expand
Strengthening capacity building
and tailor the programme for other regions.
Learning from one another is crucial to know
what works well and what to avoid. In 2025, Going Forward
we supported 17 jurisdictions17 by sharing
Malaysia’s experience through technical Looking ahead to 2026, our priorities are
consultations and strategic dialogues. We also to strengthen value-based intermediation
hosted the inaugural Islamic Finance Capacity capabilities including in sustainability and climate
Building Programme (IFCBP).18 The programme agenda, foster an enabling environment for
offered practical guidance on building dual impactful innovation, and catalyse economic
financial systems in Central Asia countries19 and potential through the halal economy and global
Azerbaijan. It covered key areas on regulatory opportunities. Guided by strategic stewardship
and supervisory frameworks, and liquidity and collaboration, BNM remains committed
management. The positive feedback we received to advancing Malaysia’s Islamic financial
reaffirms Malaysia’s role as a reference point ecosystem. This ensures its progressive
for jurisdictions when developing their Islamic evolution delivers lasting benefits for all.
17 Including Azerbaijan, Benin, Cambodia, Djibouti, Hong Kong,
Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyz Republic, the Philippines,
Somalia, Tajikistan, Türkiye, Turkmenistan, the United Kingdom,
Uzbekistan and Zambia.
18 The IFCBP was organised in collaboration with Islamic
Development Bank, INCEIF University, and International Shariah
Research Academy for Islamic Finance (ISRA).
19 Such as Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan
and Uzbekistan.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 61


The Rise of Islamic Finance in ASEAN: Unlocking
Its Growth Potential
Over the past decade, Islamic finance in ASEAN continues to transform. What began as an offering aimed
primarily at meeting the needs of Muslim consumers has evolved into a dynamic segment of the regional
financial system. Increasing demand for Shariah-compliant solutions, given the range of diverse options
and stronger policy support across several ASEAN economies are main forces driving this growth. As
global interest in ethical and sustainable finance expands, Islamic finance has gained further momentum
in ASEAN. Its emphasis on value-based principles, balanced risk-reward considerations and wider
benefits for society and the environment speaks to a growing demand for financial solutions that create
long-term propositions beyond profits.
Since 2014, Islamic financial assets in ASEAN have more than doubled from USD468 billion to USD954
billion in 2024.1 Importantly, the growing rise of Islamic finance is also evident in countries such as
Singapore and the Philippines – largely non-Muslim societies, reflecting its wider appeal.
Islamic finance as a catalyst for inclusive and sustainable growth
across ASEAN
Islamic finance continues to contribute meaningfully to both national and regional development objectives.
It has expanded financial access for underserved groups, particularly, among Muslim communities that
were previously reluctant to engage in conventional banking.2 Through Shariah-compliant financing, many
have been able to obtain funding for home and vehicle ownership. At the same time, small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) are now able to access Shariah-compliant financing to start or grow their business,
helping them to expand productive capacity and boost job creation.
Beyond financing, Islamic finance also promotes inclusive wealth distribution. By integrating zakat,
waqf and sadaqah into the sector, Islamic finance provides broader channels for supporting vulnerable
communities. Indonesia, for example, has introduced innovative instruments such as cash waqf linked
sukuk and cash waqf linked deposit that allow account holders to channel their funds into social,
humanitarian or public projects. Malaysia, on another note, has actively leveraged blended financing
initiative, known as iTEKAD, to support entrepreneurial activities by combining bank’s financing with
zakat-based seed capital, further reinforced with capacity-building programmes and skills training. As
these communities expand their income-generating activities, they evolve from recipients to economic
contributors who help uplift others. As a result, this creates pathways for more inclusive and sustainable
growth within the economy. Meanwhile, takaful and risk-sharing structures help strengthen financial
protection. Together, these features make it a practical tool for advancing financial inclusion, social
resilience, and consequently equitable development across ASEAN.
Islamic finance also plays a vital role in supporting economic development. This reflects its fundamental
principle, which requires financial instruments to be backed by underlying assets and linked to
real economic activities. Sukuk, in particular, has been widely used for the construction of various
development and infrastructure needs. Both the Malaysian and Indonesian sukuk markets have funded
the development of various infrastructures including roads, healthcare facilities and green projects.
The use of sukuk is also attributed to its capability of providing long-term funding from a wider pool of
investors, suitable for the financing needs of large-scale and capital-intensive projects.
1 Source: London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG)
2 Estimates by the Islamic Development Bank reveal that, on average, around nine percent of the population in 35 selected Muslim-majority
countries (including Indonesia and Malaysia) voluntarily exclude themselves from the formal financial sector due to religious considerations
(Alliance for Financial Inclusion, 2024). A similar pattern is seen in the Philippines, where a survey found high interest in Islamic banking but low
account ownership among Muslim respondents, indicating unmet inclusion needs (Asian Development Bank Survey, 2024).
62 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
More recently, Islamic finance has increasingly been channelled toward green and transition-related
activities. Indonesia and Malaysia collectively contribute 45% share of the global SRI and ESG sukuk
outstanding in 2024.3 This reinforces the sector’s alignment with broader ESG objectives and strengthens
its role as a catalyst for sustainable development. Building on this momentum and recognising the
importance of SMEs in the economy, we developed practical tools to support their transition. These
efforts include blended facilitation programmes such as the Greening Value Chain (GVC) and Greening
Halal Businesses (GHB),4 which offer both technical and financial assistance. Together with the Asian
Development Bank and the United Nations Development Programme, BNM published the ‘Building
Supply Chain Resilience: Insights into Greening Value Chains for ASEAN’ Playbook. The playbook draws
from Malaysia’s experience and provides guidance for ASEAN policymakers, financial institutions and
businesses on how they can integrate sustainability considerations and practices into their value chains.
Beyond SMEs, we also promoted Islamic finance as a viable funding source for large public infrastructure
such as the ASEAN Power Grid and innovative solutions under Climate Finance Innovation Lab.5
Amid growing size and maturity of key segments within Islamic finance ecosystems in ASEAN (refer Chart 1),
cross-border sukuk issuances, investment flows and financial partnerships begin to also support greater
regional integration. This integration is important to broaden the pool of market participants, diversify
instruments, deepen liquidity and mobilise capital flows across the region. As of 2025, nine participants
from ASEAN took part in Malaysia’s commodity trading platform, known as Bursa Suq Al-Sila’ (BSAS), with
a combined transaction value of RM55.9 billion for the year.6 Their participation in BSAS primarily supports
their operations for Shariah-compliant financing, deposit taking and investment activities.
Chart 1: Overview of Islamic Finance in ASEAN
Islamic finance in ASEAN: Growing contributions
Growth by segments 2014 vs 2024
Key Total Islamic Total Sukuk Total Islamic Assets Total Takaful
segments Banking Assets Outstanding Under Management Contributions
CAGR: 6.4% CAGR: 9.3% CAGR: 7.7% CAGR: 13.2%
USD452
billion
USD380
billion
USD204
USD186
billion
billion
USD40
USD19 USD9 USD31
billion
billion billion billion
2014 2024 2014 2024 2014 2024 2014 2024
Note: CAGR refers to Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Source: LSEG
Malaysia‘s roles in advancing Islamic finance across ASEAN
Malaysia has pursued a deliberate, long-term strategy to develop a comprehensive financial system,
where Islamic finance exists alongside the conventional financial system. At Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM),
efforts to support Islamic finance include strengthening Shariah governance, enhancing legal, regulatory
and market ecosystem as well as spurring innovation to meet more diverse economic and social needs.
Supported by sustained investment into capacity building, Malaysia has gradually developed a diversified
Islamic finance ecosystem spanning banking, capital, financial markets and takaful.
3 Source: LSEG
4 More details on Greening Halal Businesses can be found in the annual report’s chapter on ʽPromoting a Progressive and Inclusive Islamic
Financial Systemʼ.
5 The Climate Finance Innovation Lab (CFIL) aims to serve as a collaborative platform to ideate, develop, and accelerate innovative climate
finance solutions and mechanisms that can mobilise private and public finance to support Malaysia’s transition to net zero, to strengthen its
climate resilience and to advance nature-positive actions.
6 ASEAN BSAS participants comprise a range of financial institutions, including full-fledged Islamic banks, Islamic windows, development
financial institutions and asset management companies from Singapore, Brunei, Indonesia and Thailand. This transaction value excludes
Malaysia (Source: Bursa Malaysia).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 63


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Leveraging the strengths of the domestic ecosystem, Malaysia has been actively pursuing initiatives to
facilitate the outreach of Islamic finance in partnership with the neighbouring economies. These efforts –
together with support from host country regulatory authorities – have facilitated market entry and enabled
the development of new Islamic finance segments across ASEAN. The following section illustrates
Malaysia’s contribution in supporting various developments as ASEAN countries look to capitalise on
Islamic finance.
(i) Expanding regional footprint and cross-border services
Malaysia has nurtured credible and competitive Islamic finance institutions with deep expertise and a strong
track record. The larger domestic banks have strong presence in the region offering a wide range of Islamic
financial solutions. These banks are also well recognised for their advisory roles in sukuk issuances within
ASEAN and beyond, reflecting their active roles in the Islamic capital market developments. In the takaful
sector, Malaysian retakaful operators have steadily expanded their client base across the region (refer
Diagram 1). Beyond expansion of financial services, Malaysia’s ancillary service providers, particularly legal
and Shariah advisory firms, also play a pivotal role in enabling cross border Islamic finance transaction.
Diagram 1: Malaysian Players Actively Tapping Regional Business Opportunities
Malaysian players contributed to Islamic finance … building stronger market expansion to
growth in ASEAN … catalyse Islamic finance growth across ASEAN
Malaysia’s share out of total ASEAN:
Philippines
82%
Islamic banking assets
(USD312 billion) • One Islamic bank (rolled out in 2024)
• First takaful product (rolled out in 2025)
91%
Takaful/retakaful assets
(USD28 billion)
75%
Overall outstanding sukuk value
(USD340 billion)
Indonesia
25% ASEAN Green, Social, and
(USD49.1 billion) Sustainability bonds and sukuk • Two Islamic banks
• Two takaful operators
Share of cross-border retakaful business
from ASEAN among Malaysian players:
6.8% 21.9%
( 6 2 . 0 8 1 % 4) 2 ( ( 2 12 0 0.9 2 24% 4 ) ) Singapore
• Three Islamic banking windows
• Islamic wealth management (rolled out in 2023)
• First takaful product (rolled out in 2024)
Note: Malaysia’s Islamic asset figures exclude Malaysian players’ Islamic operations abroad.
Source: LSEG, Securities Commission Malaysia and Bank Negara Malaysia (data as of September 2025)
This progress is meaningful. It opens new business opportunities for Malaysia’s financial sector while
enabling domestic players to scale their operations, enhance service quality, and compete more efficiently
at a regional level. The provision of cross-border services also encourages collaboration with regional
partners and generates shared growth opportunities – ranging from the creation of new jobs to a broader
supply of alternative financial products and services.
(ii) Pioneering innovation and market developments
Malaysia has been at the forefront of innovation and market developments in Islamic finance. This includes
pioneering new sukuk and social finance innovations, introducing financial market infrastructure and
spearheading the adoption of value-based intermediation, VBI (refer Diagram 2). These advancements
provide useful reference models and practical lessons for other ASEAN countries, helping to raise overall
standards and support greater development of Islamic finance across the region. Collectively, these
developments also attract international investors and global financial institutions, further deepening the
region’s Islamic financial markets.
64 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 2: Malaysia’s Key Innovations and Market Developments
Key highlights
Green sukuk issuances
• In 2017, Malaysia saw the issuance of the world's first green sukuk, facilitated by
BNM, Securities Commission Malaysia and the World Bank.
• In 2021, the Government of Malaysia issued the world’s first sovereign US dollar
sustainability sukuk where the proceeds are used for eligible social and green projects
aligned with sustainable development goals.
Financial market infrastructures
• In 2009, Malaysia introduced Bursa Suq Al-Sila’, the world’s first fully Shariah-compliant
commodity trading platform, to facilitate Islamic financing and liquidity management
through commodity-based transactions.
• In 2021, BNM introduced the world’s first transaction-based Islamic benchmark rate that
will be mandated in 2027. This aims to spur development of innovative Shariah-compliant
financial products.
Value-based Intermediation (VBI)
• In 2018, BNM and the industry introduced a strategy paper on VBI to promote practices
that generate positive economic, social and environmental impact. Since then, the VBI
Community of Practitioners1 has intermediated RM798.69 billion in VBI-aligned initiatives.2
• The industry has also issued ten sectoral guides under the VBI Assessment Framework,3
supported by the Climate Change and Principle-based Taxonomy’s climate-related
classification framework.
Islamic social finance
• In 2017, Malaysia introduced myWakaf, which expands the productive use of waqf.
• In 2020, BNM and industry introduced the iTEKAD programme, which integrates zakat with
microfinancing to support microentrepreneurs through structured seed capital,
microfinancing, and business training. In 2025, the iTEKAD programme was extended to
include financial protection and employment components.
1 The VBI Community of Practitioners or ‘CoP’ is a collaborative platform for industry players to strategically advance industry-wide
implementation of the VBI agenda.
2 This includes both green and social finance. Source: Association of Islamic Banking and Financial Institutions Malaysia (AIBIM)
3 This covers ten sectors: palm oil, renewable energy, energy efficiency, oil & gas, construction, infrastructure & manufacturing, agriculture,
mining & quarrying, road transportation and waste management.
(iii) Nurturing talent and capabilities
The advancement of Islamic finance requires a steady pipeline of skilled professionals with expertise
spanning economics, finance, Shariah, and other related disciplines. At the industry level, Malaysia’s talent
development institutions play a central role by offering specialised professional certifications, degree and
postgraduate programs that nurture well-trained talent and future-ready workforce (refer Diagram 3).
As Malaysia deepens its engagement with ASEAN, these institutions have also taken on a broader
regional role. The expansion of cross-border services and partnerships demands professionals who
can navigate diverse regulatory and market environments while upholding high standards of Shariah
compliance and financial integrity. In 2025, a total of 1,632 graduates and professionals from across
ASEAN have been supported by the various postgraduates and training modules offered by these Islamic
finance talent entities.7
At BNM, we also work closely with regional regulatory counterparts in critical areas such as Islamic
liquidity management and Shariah matters (refer Diagram 4). These collaborative efforts promote mutual
understanding, support more consistent implementation across jurisdictions, and help address regulatory
gaps, ultimately strengthening the region’s Islamic finance ecosystem.
7 Based on data provided by INCEIF University, Islamic Banking and Finance Institute Malaysia (IBFIM) and Association of Shariah Advisors in
Islamic Finance Malaysia (ASAS).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 65


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 3: Malaysia’s Vibrant Islamic Finance Talent Ecosystem to Support Growth of the Industry
More than 100 ancillary services Dedicated university in Promotes applied Shariah Delivers Islamic finance
offering Islamic finance solutions e.g., Islamic finance offering and Islamic finance professional certifications
Advise on establishment of postgraduate programmes research and provides and technical training for
robust Shariah governance and executive trainings industry advisory services practitioners
framework and other related
Islamic finance issues
Assist in setting up the IslamicFinance
necessary legal fundamentals EDUCATIONENTITIES
to enable Islamic finance system Offers upskilling Shariah Develop competency of More than 60 education
P to r o c v a i t d e e r c S o h r a e r ia b h a n re k q in u g ir e p m la e tf n o t r s m a in d c v lu is d e i r n s g a t n h d ro o u f g fi h c e tw rs o I p s r l o a f m es ic s i f o in n a a n ls c e th rough e st n u t d it i i e e s s / m of o fe d r u in le g s for the
certification programmes¹ chartered qualifications Islamic finance field
and continuous
professional development
¹ Certified Shariah Advisor (CSA) and Certified Shariah Practitioner (CSP).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 4: Collaborations with ASEAN Counterparts
In July 2024, IBFIM – Bangk o Sentral ng Pilipinas, jointly hosted In May 2025, BNM and IBFIM hosted representatives from
the Associate and Intermediate Qualifications in Islamic Finance Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas for five days study visit on
(AQIF and IQIF-Banking) regulatory framework of Islamic banking
In August 2025, BNM hosted the delegation from Ministry of In December 2025, INCEIF partnered with the Indonesian
Finance Indonesia and National Committee for Shariah Association of Islamic Economists (IAEI) and KNEKS for an
Economics and Finance (KNEKS) for a bilateral dialogue on FGD titled ‘Integrating ASEAN Islamic Finance through
social finance Academic Collaboration and Knowledge Transformation
(IMPACT)’
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
66 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
The way forward − Stronger ASEAN partnerships
With its universal ethical foundation, Islamic finance holds significant potential to scale across ASEAN.
Realising this potential will require coordinated action across the entire ecosystem.
From BNM’s perspective, Malaysian industry players must continue to modernise and diversify products,
enhance value propositions, and widen distribution channels in tapping the opportunities across the
region going forward. This includes:
• Advancing financial inclusion and sustainability across ASEAN, by expanding Shariah-compliant
solutions that address financing gaps among Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs),
underserved communities, and climate-vulnerable sectors. This supports ASEAN’s broader push for
inclusive growth and an orderly transition.
• Deepening intermediation roles within the regional halal value chain, capitalising on ASEAN’s
position as a fast-growing hub for halal production, trade, logistics, and tourism. Financial institutions
can play a catalytic role in financing halal SMEs, providing protection needs, enabling cross-border
trade, and supporting certification and supply-chain integration.
• Accelerating digitalisation of Islamic financial services, including through fintech collaboration,
embedded finance models, and data-driven innovation. A stronger digital ecosystem enhances
customer experience, increases operational efficiency, and enables wider outreach across a diverse
and highly mobile ASEAN population.
The establishment of the MIFC Business Network (MBN)8 in 2025 is timely in capitalising on these
business opportunities. By bringing together players across banking, capital market, takaful, private
market, and ecosystem development, the network aims to drive innovation, co-develop solutions and
unlock new growth opportunities that can deepen Islamic finance penetration across ASEAN. BNM,
together with other agencies, will continue providing support to the industry players in navigating the
next chapter of the MIFC agenda. Beyond this, capacity building will also catalyse long-term growth of
Islamic finance in ASEAN. Continued sharing of expertise can be done by tapping on various platforms
including initiatives to cater for the regional needs such as the ASEAN Takaful Alliance9 and Muzakarah
Cendekiawan Syariah Nusantara.10
Islamic finance in ASEAN remains a journey in progress. Its future will depend on collective advancement
rather than the performance of any single market. Regulatory cooperation will be vital, alongside deeper
engagement among regulators to support cross-border activities while simultaneously safeguarding
financial stability. Stronger collaboration among market participants will also be essential.
8 More details on MIFC Business Network can be found in the annual report’s chapter on ʽPromoting a Progressive and Inclusive Islamic
Financial Systemʼ.
9 Launched at the Global Islamic Finance Forum 2025, the ASEAN Takaful Alliance is committed to fostering knowledge sharing and enhancing
capacity among takaful operators within ASEAN.
10 A regional annual conference that brings together Shariah scholars, Islamic finance advisors, regulators, academics, and industry practitioners
from across the Nusantara region (including Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Singapore, and Thailand). It serves as a high-level platform for
intellectual exchange, collaboration and the discussion of contemporary Shariah issues affecting Islamic finance.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 67


PROMOTING A PROGRESSIVE AND INCLUSIVE ISLAMIC FINANCIAL SYSTEM
References:
Alliance for Financial Inclusion (2024), ‘Islamic Finance and Financial Inclusion: AFI Members’
Perspectives’, AFI & SME Finance Working Group Survey Report
Islamic Finance Advisory and Asian Development Bank (2024), ‘Unlocking the Potential of Islamic Finance
in the Philippines: A Market Analysis and Landscape Report’
Islamic Corporation for the Development of Private Sector of the Islamic Development Bank Group – LSEG
Islamic Finance Development Report 2025 (2025), ‘50 Years of Exponential Growth’
68 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Promoting Safe and Efficient Payment
and Remittance Services
BNM remains steadfast in ensuring has consistently surpassed the Financial Sector
Blueprint 2022-2026 target of at least 15% CAGR
payment and remittance transactions
in average e-payment transactions per capita.
are safe, reliable and affordable. The growth in 2025 was supported by steady
consumption activity. This was evident from
higher retail e-payment transactions3 by 19% for
the year to RM831 billion (2024: RM698.2 billion).
Making payment and money
More businesses, especially smaller
services1 safe, efficient and ones, are increasingly using e-payments,
reliable for everyone broadening adoption across the economy.
Key developments include:
• Wider use of e-money. The higher average
In 2025, Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) continued
e-money transaction size of RM43 (2024:
to focus on making payment services safe,
RM33) reflects growing user confidence, not
efficient and reliable for everyone. Our efforts are
just for daily spending such as transport,
centred on three fronts:
food and beverages, but also for higher-value
• Expand electronic payments (e-payment)
payments. These include payments for
so that transactions are easier and more
financial services such as micro-financing,
inclusive, while maintaining user confidence.
money-market fund investment and
• Strengthen infrastructure and oversight
micro-insurance/takaful.
arrangements while keeping payment systems
• Steady growth in online banking. As the
resilient and regulations relevant as the
preferred online banking channel with a 64%
ecosystem evolves.
market share, mobile banking continued to
• Explore new technologies to futureproof
outpace internet banking as high smartphone
Malaysia’s payment ecosystem so that
penetration enables seamless and on-the-go
consumers and businesses can transact in a
transactions. Active mobile banking users
safe and efficient manner.
grew by 8.7% to 25 million, while active
internet banking users fell by 3.1% to 21
Sustaining greater digitalisation million compared to 2024.
• Sustained card usage. Card payments
of payment and money services
continued to be important and recorded a
healthy growth. While debit card transactions’
E-payment transactions grew by 25% to 18.4 growth almost doubled the pace of credit
billion (2024: 14.7 billion) in 2025, as more people card transactions (20.5% versus 10.9%),
chose fast, convenient and secure payments for the average debit card ticket size was lower
daily transactions. by 11.5% (2025: RM69; 2024: RM78). This
indicates greater acceptance of debit card for
On average, each Malaysian made 538 everyday lower-value purchases against cash
e-payments in 2025, a 25% increase from 432 and other payment channels. Contactless
in 20242 (Diagram 1). Between 2022 and 2025, payments also gained traction, growing
e-payment transactions rose by an annual by 20.3% (2025: 2 billion; 2024: 1.7 billion
average rate (CAGR) of 17%. With this, Malaysia transactions), driven by ease and speed of use.
1 Namely remittance, currency exchange and wholesale currency 3 Refers to e-payment transactions made via payment cards,
services. Wholesale currency refers to the buying and selling of e-money purchase transactions, Financial Process Exchange
foreign currency with licensed commercial banks, Islamic banks, (FPX) and DuitNow Online Banking/Wallets (OBW) transactions.
investment banks or licensed money services business (MSB) FPX and DuitNow OBW is commonly used for e-commerce
operators, as well as the import and export of foreign currency purchases.
notes.
2 E-payment transactions per capita for 2024 have been revised
from the number published in BNM’s Annual Report 2024 due to
an update in the population data used in the computation.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 69


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 1: Snapshot of E-Payment
E-payment
transactions
per capita 432
Share of e-payment transactions
E-money
2024 5.0 27%
billion Annual growth
6.4
billion
Prepaid card E-wallet
35% (29%) (71%)
Online banking
Others1 2024 5.3 11%
billion
14% Annual growth
32% 2025 5.8
billion
19%
Internet banking Mobile banking
(36%) (64%)
Payment card
2024 2.9 17%
billion Annual growth
3.4
billion
Charge Credit Debit card
(0.2%) (30%) (70%)
1 Refers to direct debit transactions, ATM e-payment transactions and RENTAS (third-party payment) transactions.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
The acceleration in domestic e-payment lower acceptance costs. Aside from lowering
adoption was also driven by greater preference business costs, QR payments also increase
for QR payments in daily transactions. DuitNow digital access for the underserved and deliver a
QR transaction4 volume doubled to three billion seamless payment experience for consumers.5
in 2025 (2024: 1.5 billion) mainly due to its
convenience and wide merchant acceptance. With rapid e-payment adoption, use of cheques
As at end-2025, there are almost three million reduced further including by small businesses.
registered DuitNow QR touchpoints across In 2025, only 31.4 million cheques were issued,
Malaysia (2024: 2.6 million). A majority are small 21.3% lower compared to 40 million issued
businesses who also benefit from DuitNow QR’s in 2024.
4 This includes DuitNow QR transactions conducted by individuals 5 Refer to feature article on DuitNow QR: Fostering Inclusive Digital
and merchants, encompassing both banks and non-bank financial Payments (https://www.bnm.gov.my/documents/20124/12142010/
institutions. ar2023_en_box6.pdf) in Annual Report 2023 for more details on
the cost-effective setup of DuitNow QR.
70 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 2: Snapshot of Cross-Border Payment and Money Services Business
In cross-border space, use of payment linkages has been accelerating …
Cross-border QR payment Cross-border person-to-person transfer
2024 RM0.9 billion 2024 RM0.2 billion
179% 121%
Annual growth Annual growth
2025 RM2.4 billion 2025 RM0.4 billion
… while growth in money services business activity is driven by digitalisation
Outward remittance1 Currency exchange1
2024 RM42.8 billion 2024 RM70.1 billion
43% - 3%
Annual growth Annual growth
2025 2024 RM61.0 billion 2025 2024 RM67.9 billion
1 Refers to transactions conducted by non-bank service providers.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
There is now a growing demand for similar Priorities in 2025
convenience when paying for goods overseas or
receiving money from abroad. This explained the Our efforts in 2025 were directed towards three
higher cross-border e-payment transactions seen themes – expand, preserve and futureproof
through our payment linkages, by both banks and Malaysia’s payment ecosystem (Diagram 3).
non-banks (Diagram 2). This trend is also supported
by more payment players offering cross-border
payment services alongside intensified promotional Expand the Reach of E-payments for a
efforts6 driving greater familiarity among More Inclusive Economy
consumers. This, in turn, facilitates cross-border
trade, including for smaller businesses. Balancing innovation with inclusivity and
affordability
Digitalisation is also driving growth trends in
money services business segments. E-payments support broader business
• Digital services are driving strong growth participation across the economy. For small
in remittances. E-remittance services by enterprises in particular, faster settlement cycles
licensed remittance service providers surged and lower acceptance costs improve cash flow
by 70.1% reaching RM31.6 billion in 2025. This management. Meanwhile, lower cash handling
represents 51.8% of outward remittances. mitigates operational and security risks.
Bangladesh, Indonesia and Myanmar are the
top recipient corridors for remittances in line To make these services more accessible, we
with the large presence of migrant workers updated the interchange fee7 (IF) framework for
from these countries. debit card in 2025. The IF is a key component of
• Currency exchange services being the merchant discount rate (MDR). It serves as
supported by digital solutions. Despite the an important cost factor for businesses when
negative overall growth, currency exchange deciding whether to accept digital payments using
transactions undertaken by non-bank mobile wallets.8 The revised framework allows
currency exchangers through digital means, them to accept such payments at a lower cost.
rose by 29.1% to RM7.6 billion (2024: RM5.9 We also require card issuers to now enable the
billion). This is due to more offering of digital lowest-cost network option for co-badged debit
solutions, including through e-payment cards, including via mobile wallets. Together,
acceptance and multi-currency prepaid cards. these measures give businesses more flexibility
6 This refers to social media and on-the-ground awareness 7 An interchange fee is a charge between banks for processing
campaigns carried out by PayNet together with banks, e-money card payments, which influences the cost for merchants to accept
issuers and acquirers. card payments.
8 Examples of mobile wallets include Apple Pay, Samsung Pay and
Google Pay.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 71


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 3: Key Payment-Related Priorities in 2025
01 02 03
Expand Preserve Futureproof
e-payments to make user confidence, and strengthen Malaysia’s payment ecosystem
transactions easier and infrastructure and oversight through exploration of new
more inclusive arrangements technologies
• Balance innovation with • Ensure ongoing oversight of • Modernise RENTAS for greater
inclusivity and affordability. payment services. resilience and efficiency.
• Enable faster, cheaper and more • Further strengthen customer • Strengthen shared payment
convenient cross-border protection and controls to infrastructure.
payments. minimise fraud risks.
• Accelerate CBDC exploration.
• Advance digital assets and
tokenisation initiatives.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
to route transactions through their preferred BNM’s co-chairmanship10 of the ASEAN Working
payment network and avoid costly payment Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems
methods. As for consumers, it means more (WC-PSS). The Priority Economic Deliverables
choices on how they pay, including through a (PEDs) (Diagram 4) led by BNM, sought to make
mobile wallet option which is more convenient. paying across ASEAN as seamless as domestic
transactions. It also aims to reduce costs and
In addition, the Government exempts service tax on delays that often come with cross-border
fees and commissions for basic banking services, payments. Currently, there are 29 live instant
including fund transfers via DuitNow, and issuance payment linkages in the region (Diagram 5),
of payment cards. This allows financial institutions reflecting growing demand for more convenient
to better manage transaction costs and keep digital cross-border options.
payments affordable for consumers and businesses.
During the year, phase 2 of the Malaysia-Cambodia
Collectively, these initiatives promote inclusivity
payment linkage went live, building on existing
and help accelerate Malaysia’s journey towards a
operationally resilient and secure domestic
modern digital economy that is less reliant on cash.
systems. Malaysians can now pay Cambodian
merchants by scanning the KHQR11 simply using
Faster, cheaper and more convenient cross- Malaysian banking applications. This complements
border payments Phase 1, which took effect in September 2024,
enabling Cambodian visitors to just use their
Cross-border digital payments are becoming Bakong12 or selected Cambodian banking
more common for many Malaysians, whether applications to scan DuitNow QR in Malaysia.
for travel, shopping or business. In 2025, we Spending abroad is much easier for travellers
therefore intensified regional efforts to enhance with access to QR payments at over seven million
access, speed and affordability of these payments businesses across the two countries. These
under Malaysia’s ASEAN chairmanship9 and businesses, particularly smaller merchants, also
9 Please refer to the feature article titled ‘Malaysia’s 2025 ASEAN/ 10 Together with Brunei Darussalam Central Bank as co-chairperson
ASEAN+3 Chairmanship: Advancing Inclusive and Sustainable for WC-PSS.
Economic Growth for ASEAN and Malaysia’. 11 Khmer QR (KHQR) is a standardised QR code payment system
in Cambodia, designed to facilitate cashless transactions and
enhance interoperability among different banks and payment
service providers.
12 Bakong is Cambodia’s all-in-one mobile payment and banking
app, launched by the National Bank of Cambodia. It allows users
to make payments, transfer money and access various financial
services through a single platform.
72 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 4: Key Achievements under the PEDs
01 02 03
Endorsement of Roadmap on Expansion of Live Payment Significant Growth in Usage of
Payment Connectivity for ASEAN Linkages Exceeded Target Cross–Border Payment Linkages
Roadmap sets a clear path for faster, Live pa yment linkage s involving AMS Aggregate u sage (v olume) of l ive
c
cr
h
o
e
s
a
s
p
–
e
b
r
o
a
r
n
d
d
e r
m
p
o
a
r
y
e
m
c
e
o
n
n
t
v
s
e
a
n
m
ie
o
n
n
t
g
increased from: payment l inkages in creased b y:
ASEAN m ember state s (AMS). QR P2P
18 29
176% 44%
Target: 25 Target: 50% Target: 25%
With this, Malaysians can now pay and get paid across ASEAN (and beyond) more easily, supporting
tourism, trade and financial inclusion. Businesses benefit from wider customer base, cheaper
acceptance cost and faster settlement, while consumers enjoy greater convenience when travelling.
Source: AMS Survey Conducted by Bank Negara Malaysia in January 2026
Diagram 5: Live Payment Linkages Across AMS
There are 29 live payment linkages in the region
China (QR) Legend:
QR payments
P2P transfer
Beyond ASEAN
China (QR)
Japan (QR)
Japan (QR)
China (QR)
Hong Kong (QR)
Korea (QR)
Korea (QR)
China (QR)
Korea (QR)
India (P2P)
Japan (QR)
Source: AMS Survey Conducted by Bank Negara Malaysia in January 2026
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour and Governor Chea Serey (National Bank of Cambodia) showcasing successful transactions
during launch of the Phase 2 cross-border QR payment linkage between the two countries
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 73


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
benefit from the higher customer flows through the isolated cases where issues arose, measures
convenient and low-cost QR payment channels. such as timely switch to back-up sites and
system fixes were swiftly deployed to resolve and
Drawing from the lessons and benefits of linking avoid recurring events. We also did a supervisory
instant payment systems (IPS) bilaterally, the review on the RPP to identify further system and
region is coming together to develop a common operational enhancements to preserve resilience,
global bridge through Project Nexus. Nexus reliability and security.
intends to link IPS from India, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore and Thailand via a single To reinforce system integrity, we also
connection, creating a network of networks that did targeted reviews on the adequacy of
delivers faster and more affordable cross-border fraud controls, information technology risk
payments. This approach simplifies country management and cybersecurity. We then took
expansion and reduces integration costs for enforcement actions14 to address significant
IPS and payment service providers. In 2025, lapses found. These steps led to better
Nexus Global Payments (NGP) was set up as the efficiency, compliance and reduced operational
scheme owner to govern the Nexus platform and risks among payment system operators and
prepare for its live rollout. Industry readiness service providers. With lower risk of payment
also continued to be built through engagements failure for customers, this means businesses face
led by BNM and PayNet, the operator of fewer interruptions at checkout and benefit from
Malaysia’s IPS, the Real-time Retail Payments more efficient fund settlement.
Platform (RPP).13 This includes gathering
feedback on the proposed scheme rules and We also began to use supervisory technology
commercial arrangements. (SupTech) to improve detection of emerging risks
and enhance work efficiency (Diagram 6). Timely
For customers to enjoy a familiar and seamless insights and enhanced analytics have helped
experience, more financial institutions supervisors identify potential risks earlier and
connected to the RPP will be able to support pre-emptively intervene before issues affect a
cross-border payments through the existing wider group of people. This has ensured that
bilateral linkages and participation in Nexus. This oversight stays responsive in a more digitalised
approach will broaden user access to regional payment landscape.
payment options and support Malaysia’s wider
economic priorities by making it easier for Policy responses to strengthen customer
individuals, businesses and travellers to transact protection and minimise fraud risks
across borders.
During the year, we extended security standards
already in place for online banking to payment
Preserving Public Confidence in the Use
cards. This raised the bar for safer card payments,
of Payment Services thus strengthening consumer protection and
reducing fraud risks. This includes shifting away
As digital payments usage continues to rise in from SMS-based one-time password (OTP)
Malaysia, robust safeguards are essential for towards stronger authentication methods.15 That
services to remain reliable. Safeguards also said, SMS OTP is still available for a limited group
serve to maintain public trust and protect users of users as a fallback option to manage potential
from digital fraud in the payment ecosystem. In exclusion risk. This means users who rely on
2025, efforts focused on keeping high service basic or older devices can still make secure online
availability, strengthening fraud security and card payments. Cardholders can also now choose
achieving fair treatment of fraud victims. their own security settings. These include the
ability to disable online payment16 function and
Ongoing oversight of payment services activate the ‘kill switch’, for instant blocking when
they detect suspicious activity.
Throughout 2025, RENTAS and major retail
payment platforms maintained high systems For e-money issuers (EMIs), BNM also
availability. This ensured that payments worked introduced proportionate security standards to
when people and businesses need them. In the reflect their varied business models. Effective
13 RPP is the shared payment infrastructure developed and 14 Refer to chapter on ʽPromoting Financial Stabilityʼ in BNM’s Annual
established by PayNet which facilitates instant payments and Report 2025 for more details on enforcement actions taken.
collections using easily remembered proxies or by account 15 This is to address SMS-based vulnerabilities such as exposure to
numbers. SIM-swap, malware and interception risks.
16 Also refers to card-not-present transactions.
74 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 6: Key Enhancements in SupTech
Analytics Driven Supervision Enhances Efficiency and Risk Management
Key Enhancements in SupTech Outcomes
Generative AI
Improved work efficiency with further
Development of a chatbot to facilitate easy access
developments in 2026
to supervisory information
Risk Profiling
Improved prioritisation of supervisory
More detailed risk profiling for money services
interventions
business operators and e-money issuers
Remittance Forecasting Earlier detection of misreporting,
Enhanced forecasting model via machine which resulted in six warning
learning to detect anomalies letters being issued
CCTV Video Analytics Strengthened validation of money
Review of video-analytics engine with improved services business operators
motion detection transactional activities
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
January 2025, eligible EMIs17 must adopt Futureproofing Key Payment
controls similar to banks. These include multi- Infrastructure
factor authentication, single secure device
authentication and the provision of a ‘kill switch’. Malaysia’s payment systems sit behind almost
EMIs that choose not to adopt these measures every transaction we make. As the economy
must fully bear the cost of fraud losses. becomes more digitalised, the infrastructure
This creates a strong incentive to implement supporting these payments must stay secure,
enhanced controls and protects users from resilient and ready for future innovation. In 2025,
bearing the cost of weaker security. BNM advanced several initiatives to modernise
our core payment infrastructure and explore
To strengthen protection for fraud victims, BNM emerging technologies (Diagram 7). The aim is for
also closely looked at how banks applied the consumers and businesses to continue enjoying
compensation framework introduced in October fast, safe and efficient payment services.
2024 under the Policy Document on Ensuring Fair
Treatment for Victims of Unauthorised e-Banking Modernising RENTAS for greater resilience
Transactions (SEFT). Our review focused on and efficiency
case management practices and the allocation
of losses for such transactions, to ensure that RENTAS+19 went live on 29 September 2025,
customers did not bear losses caused by gaps in enabling near real-time settlement (NRTS)
banks’ fraud controls.18 for RPP transactions. With RENTAS+, these
17 EMIs are grouped into eligible EMIs and standard EMIs. Eligible 19 RENTAS+ builds on the existing RENTAS infrastructure using
EMIs are those that meet BNM’s criteria for significant market modern cloud technology. It enables interbank fund transfer and
presence and are subject to stronger safeguards. All others are settlement in RENTAS on a 24 by 7 basis throughout the year. To
considered standard EMIs. support round the clock settlement, financial institutions have
18 Refer to feature article titled ‘Fraud Resolution: Building Trust access to a newly-introduced 24/7 automatic liquidity facility
through Shared Accountability’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2025 for using repurchase agreements (repo) and sell and buy back
more details on the implementation. agreements (SBBA).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 75


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 7: Key Initiatives to Modernise Malaysia’s Payment Infrastructure
CBDC Exploration
Launch of RENTAS+
Experimentation to evaluate the potential
Implementation of NRTS for RPP
of CBDC in improving domestic and
transactions to reduce settlement risk
cross-border wholesale payments
ISO 20022 Migration Digital Assets and Tokenisation
Full migration to international messaging Launch of Digital Asset Innovation Hub
standard for both domestic and (DAIH) to facilitate testing of digital asset
cross-border transactions use cases
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 8: Comparison of Settlement Models for RPP Transactions in RENTAS
Initiate transaction
to transfer funds
Sender Paying bank RENTAS Settlement Models for RPP Transactions
Send instructions
for fund transfer 5
RENTAS+
RPP Stream payment instruction
from paying bank to RENTAS+
4 by PayNet Previous settlement model
Receive funds Forward
3 Deferred Net Settlement (DNS) DNS exposes banks to
almost instantly instructions to
(real-time) receiving bank RPP transactions are settled by settlement risks as the receiving
batches on next settlement day (T+1), bank credits the customer’s
with two settlement windows daily. account in real-time but only
receives funds from the paying
Receiver bank on a deferred basis (T+1).
(Beneficiary) Receiving bank
Starting September 2025
Newly implemented in RENTAS+
No changes to existing retail payment Near Real-Time Settlement (NRTS) NRTS eliminates the time lag
process between customers and banks RPP transactions are settled caused by batch processing
individually almost instantly used in DNS, hence minimising
(near real-time). interbank settlement risks.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
transactions are settled almost instantly, efficient cross-border payments. In 2025, Malaysia
shifting from the deferred net settlement20 (DNS) became the first country to achieve full adoption
model (Diagram 8). For the public, the payment of the ISO 2002221 messaging standard for cross-
experience stays the same. However, back- border payments. This reflects our industry’s
end settlement is now faster and more reliable, strong commitment to supporting the transition
increasing confidence that payments will settle (Diagram 9). ISO 20022 improves payment network
on time. This helps reduce credit and liquidity interoperability, hence enabling faster, more
risks for financial institutions. transparent and cheaper cross-border payments.
For businesses, the richer structured data reduces
It is important for our key payment infrastructure to errors and eases reconciliation, reducing manual
also keep pace with global standards to support rework and leading to better customer service.
20 RENTAS+ settles each retail payment transaction individually in 21 ISO 20022 is an international messaging standard for the financial
real time. Meanwhile, the DNS model groups multiple transactions industry with enhanced data content and structured messaging
over a pre-determined period and calculates each participant’s formats. For more information, please refer to BNM’s Annual
net settlement position. At the end of each settlement cycle, only Report 2020 and the introductory video at (https://www.iso20022.
the net amount is settled. org/about-iso-20022).
76 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 9: ISO 20022 Migration Milestones
BNM’s deadline for full ISO 20022 SWIFT’s deadline to migrate
migration of key cross-border other non-key message types
payment message types under the existing MT standard
• Majority of participants successfully to ISO 20022.
migrated ahead of deadline.
July June November November
2024 2025 2025 2027 and
beyond
All RENTAS participants SWIFT’s deadline to migrate key
successfully mig rated RENTAS message types under the existing MT
payment messa ges to ISO 200 22 standard1 to ISO 20022
for domestic payments. • Full industry migration achieved for
cross-border payments.
1 Refers to ISO 1 5022.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Malaysia has fully adopted the Accelerating Central Bank Digital Currency
(CBDC) exploration
ISO 20022 standard for cross-border
payment transactions, ahead of BNM is committed to driving future payment
innovations in Malaysia. In 2025, Project Mata
the global compliance deadline set Wang Ringgit, also known as Project Mawar, made
notable progress in assessing how wholesale
by SWIFT.
CBDC (wCBDC) and distributed ledger technology
(DLT) can make settlement more efficient (Diagram
10). Key upsides include faster and more reliable
Strengthening shared payment infrastructure22 interbank settlements with fewer intermediary banks
involved and more efficient processing. The project
To advance Malaysia’s payment ecosystem, examined use cases in greater detail, which will
access to shared payment infrastructure such guide future efforts to modernise RENTAS, such as
as the RPP needs to remain inclusive with enabling 24/7 operations. Banks taking part in the
appropriate safeguards in place. This prevents project have contributed by identifying viable use
market fragmentation, drives efficiency and cases based on current pain points. This project
innovation, and strengthens public confidence has also supported capacity building on emerging
amid rising cybersecurity threats. To this end, technologies, ensuring industry readiness for any
BNM initiated a review on the Interoperable Fund potential future adoption of CBDC.
Transfer Framework, which supports instant fund
transfer across different financial institutions. BNM also continues to work with the Bank for
As part of this review, BNM plans to require International Settlements Innovation Hub (BISIH)
domestic QR code schemes23 to be interoperable and other central banks on global initiatives24
with the national QR code standard. This would (Diagram 11). All these efforts ensure Malaysia is
remove the display of operator-specific QR well-positioned to take advantage of new payment
codes, ensuring a more seamless payment innovations and transition exploratory initiatives into
experience for consumers across Malaysia. live implementation in the future.
22 Shared payment infrastructure serves as an interoperable network 24 Project Rialto was the most recently completed project with the
connecting bank accounts and non-bank e-money accounts for BISIH Eurosystem and Singapore Centres. Four central banks
both account-to-account fund transfers as well as payments to namely Banque de France, the Bank of Italy, the Monetary
merchants. It has enabled the industry to collaborate by pooling Authority of Singapore and BNM participated in this project. The
resources and sharing costs, while competing at the product level Project Rialto technical report was released on 10 December 2025
at the same time to better serve end-users, such as consumers and is accessible via (https://www.bis.org/publ/othp106.htm).
and merchants.
23 This requirement will only be applicable to banks and eligible EMIs.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 77


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 10: Advancing Malaysia’s Exploratory Work into CBDCs: Domestic Payments
Domestic CBDC and Tokenisation Exploration
Project Mawar
Domestic Wholesale Central Bank Digital Currency (wCBDC)
Explore the potential of domestic wCBDC and emerging technology to futureproof key payment infrastructure.
Use cases Benefits to payment system
CBDC Lifecycle Management Serve as safe settlement asset to support
Issuance, distribution, transfer and redemption of wCBDC tokenised financial system
Tokenisation of Securities and Repo Enable 24/7 atomic settlement of tokenised assets using
End-to-end issuance, settlement, trading of tokenised bonds, wCBDC, hence eliminating settlement risk
sukuk and repo
Programmable Controls Improve efficiency through automation of regulatory and
Use of smart contracts to facilitate regulatory and compliance compliance checking
checking
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 11: Advancing Malaysia’s Exploratory Work into CBDCs: Cross-Border Payments
Cross-Border CBDC and Tokenisation Exploration
(in collaboration with BISIH and other central bank partners)
Cross-Border Wholesale Settlement
Insights from Project
Project Dunbar Dunbar carried through
(Completed in March 2022) to subsequent projects
Explored the potential of a multi-CBDC platform to enable cheaper,
faster and safer cross-border payments and settlements.
Compliance FX Settlement
Project Mandala Project Rialto
(Phase 1 completed in October 2024, Phase 2 ongoing) (Completed in December 2025)
Explore the feasibility of programmable compliance Explored automated FX layer using wCBDC
to enable efficient cross-border payments as settlement asset for FX conversion
and settlements. and cross-border payment.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
78 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
onboarded to develop use cases for tokenised
money under the umbrella of DAIH. The strong
industry momentum signals the growing need
for regulations to also adapt in this space.
In addition, we also issued a Discussion Paper on
Asset Tokenisation, outlining high level principles
and priority use cases to guide industry focus
areas. This is supported by a dedicated industry
working group (IWG) for structured dialogue.
BNM recognises that building a sustainable
digital asset ecosystem requires strong
A panel session during Sasana Symposium discussing the partnership between public and private sectors.
future of digital assets, followed by the launch of Digital Asset To achieve this, we also worked closely with the
Innovation Hub
Securities Commission Malaysia26 and other
agencies to align policies, including through
Advancing digital assets and tokenisation
the Digital Assets and Artificial Intelligence
initiatives
Advisory Council chaired by the Prime
Minister. In addition, BNM brought together
Digital assets and emerging technology like
financial institutions and digital asset players
DLT, have drawn strong public interest. They
for structured dialogue, to ensure mutual
have the potential to transform how money is
understanding on risk management practices
stored, transferred and used across the financial
and build trust.
system domestically and across borders. To
enable safe testing of credible use cases,
we created the Digital Asset Innovation Hub These steps will help Malaysia build a digital
(DAIH)25 as a platform for industry players to economy that is safe, vibrant and supports
test digital asset solutions. As of first quarter responsible innovation while maintaining monetary
of 2026, several major institutions have been and financial stability.27
Prime Minister chairing the Digital Assets and Artificial Intelligence Advisory Council meeting involving BNM and various ministries
and agencies
25 Launched by BNM’s Digital Currency Hub, DAIH has received 26 The Securities Commission Malaysia regulates the issuance,
strong interest since its launch in June 2025. The hub has trading and custody of digital assets in Malaysia through the 2019
engaged a wide variety of players including domestic and Prescription Order and additional guidelines covering Digital
international players across the financial, fintech and non-financial Asset Exchanges (DAX), Initial Exchange Offerings (IEO) and
sectors. Admission of participants into DAIH will be guided by Digital Asset Custodians.
the principle of responsible innovation, which includes credible 27 Digital asset innovation, when accompanied by sound risk
value proposition and track record of sound governance and risk controls and an appropriate regulatory framework, can be scaled
management, among others. safely to minimise any foreign currency pressures and contagion
risks while ensuring that payment arrangements remain resilient.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 79


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Going Forward In line with growing global interest towards
a tokenised economy, BNM will continue to
In 2026, BNM will continue to pursue efforts that advance work on asset tokenisation and digital
ensure payment and money services are secure money including CBDC, tokenised deposits and
and reliable for consumers and businesses. Efforts Ringgit stablecoins. This work will be undertaken
to expand digital payment adoption across all with the intention to establish a clear regulatory
segments of society will be intensified. At the same framework. This approach provides industry
time, strengthening oversight and fraud prevention certainty while safeguarding financial stability
to protect users will remain a priority. This includes and consumer protection. Together, these efforts
closer cross-sector collaboration and enhanced will position Malaysia as a trusted and forward-
cross-border safeguards to counter increasingly looking nation for responsible digital finance
sophisticated scams. These measures will ensure innovation. Ultimately, this will translate into real
users can transact securely and support confidence economic gains and support Malaysia’s broader
in Malaysia’s digital economy. economic transformation.
80 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Fraud Resolution: Building Trust through Shared
Accountability
Globally, consumers lost about USD442 billion to scams1 in 2024. In Malaysia, the reported impact amounted
to RM2.8 billion in 2025.2 In these statistics, there are stories of real people suffering misfortune – a retiree
who lost his entire life savings or a family whose emergency funds disappeared overnight.
This raises an important question: When fraud happens, who should take responsibility and bear the
losses? Is it the financial institution, the consumer, or should responsibility be shared more broadly
across the digital ecosystem?
This question touches on the aspect of trust within the financial system. Amid increasingly sophisticated
fraud tactics, we need to ensure that digital payments remain safe and accessible, and that public
confidence is upheld. Financial institutions must continue investing in technology to shore up their
defences against fraud. At the same time, consumers need to be equipped with better tools and
awareness to keep digital banking secure. But when fraud does happen, fairness must be upheld for
both the consumer and financial institution. This should be supported by a robust investigation process
to help justify a reasonable outcome for all parties. Ultimately, preventing fraud is a shared accountability.
This accountability should also be reviewed over time as the role of other key digital players beyond the
financial ecosystem become more prominent, reflective of the broader digital ecosystem.
Regulators worldwide recognise that ensuring fraud victims are treated fairly is just as important as
strong prevention. Many countries are exploring compensation frameworks for victims alongside tighter
security controls. However, developing this framework is not an easy task. It requires striking a balance
between fairness, legal limits and ease of implementation. Even so, only a few countries have taken the
step of introducing compensation frameworks. These frameworks are tailored to fit their respective fraud
landscapes and regulatory environments (Table 1).
For Malaysia, BNM introduced a compensation framework in 2024 through the Policy Document on
Ensuring Fair Treatment for Victims of Unauthorised e-Banking Transactions (SEFT). The policy currently
focuses on unauthorised transactions.3 SEFT promotes a shared approach to accountability between
banks and their customers (Diagram 1). This is done without compromising the need for ongoing
customer vigilance. While SEFT provides a basis for considering compensation, it does not guarantee
compensation to victims in all cases. The policy recognises that, in some cases, liability should be shared
and not rest with just one party.
SEFT provides a clear and transparent framework for assessing cases, ensuring customers are aware of
their rights. The framework also clarifies the respective roles of both the banks and customers in preventing
fraud. For instance, customers are expected to avoid risky actions, such as clicking on unknown links which
could lead to the unintentional sharing of their passwords. At the same time, banks remain accountable for
failing to detect and prevent suspicious transactions that occur outside customers’ normal behaviour. There
are also cases where the victim is held fully responsible for the fraud and therefore should not be eligible to
any compensation. For example, when a victim refuses to cooperate with the bank during the investigation
or proceeds to download harmful mobile applications despite prior warnings from the bank of its risks.
Through this approach, SEFT reinforces the principle of shared accountability. It emphasises that both
banks and customers play an active role in safeguarding the integrity of digital payments.
1 Global State of Scams 2025 Report by Global Anti-Scam Alliance (GASA).
2 As per data by Polis Diraja Malaysia (PDRM) that includes telecommunication scam, e-commerce scam, loan scam, investment scam, love
scam as well as malware and phishing.
3 These refer to transactions made by fraudsters without the victim’s knowledge. Fraudsters use methods like malware and phishing to obtain
personal credentials of their victims. Once compromised, fraudsters use these credentials to perform unauthorised transactions. This
excludes cases where customers initiate transactions themselves, including those made under coercion or undue influence, such as love or
investment scams.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 81


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Table 1: Comparable Frameworks At a Glance
Malaysia1 United Kingdom2 Singapore3 Thailand4
Scope Unauthorised transactions Authorised push-payment Phishing-linked unauthorised Authorised and unauthorised
fraud (APP) transactions payment fraud
Eff ective date October 2024 October 2024 December 2024 April 2025
Parties 1. Banks 1. Banks and payment 1. Banks and payment 1. Banks and payment
involved 2. Customers service providers service providers service providers
2. Customers 2. Telecommunication 2. Digital asset operators
providers (Telcos) 3. Telcos
3. Customers 4. Social media platform
providers
5. Customers
Core principle Clear and timely case Mandatory reimbursement, Shared responsibility with Shared responsibility with
management process; shared with sending and receiving loss to be fully borne by a parties breaching duties
accountability between banks institutions equally sharing party that fails to meet its paying the loss
and customers, accounting the loss, unless customer was obligations, based on a clearly
for their respective obligations found to be acting with gross defi ned hierarchy: bank or
negligence payment service provider ͢
telco ͢ customer
1 The policy document can be found here: (https://www.bnm.gov.my/documents/20124/938039/Ensuring_Fair_Treatment_for_Victims_of_
Unauthorised_eBanking-Transactions.pdf).
2 UK’s APP scams reimbursement requirement (https://www.psr.org.uk/publications/policy-statements/ps255-app-scams-reimbursement-
requirement/).
3 Singapore’s Guidelines on Shared Responsibility Framework (https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidelines/guidelines-on-shared-responsibility-
framework).
4 Thailand’s Emergency Decree on Measures for the Prevention and Suppression of Technological Crime (No. 2) (2025) (https://www.bot.or.th/th/
news-and-media/news/news-20250428.html).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 1: Understanding the Key Principles of SEFT
What does this mean for you?
If you are a victim of fraud or scams, here’s what you can expect:
Robust and transparent case handling
1 Investigation of fraud cases 2 Communication of decision
Report acknowledgement: The bank will confirm your Clear decision: The bank will explain the outcome, reasons
dispute and tell you what information is needed behind it and available dispute channels
Investigation: The bank will properly investigate and keep Escalation: If you are not satisfied, you can escalate the
you informed about the process and expected timelines case to the Financial Markets Ombudsman Service (FMOS)
Provisional credit: If the investigation takes time, you may
get temporary financial assistance
Independent review: If the case is not in your favour, the
decision must go through an independent review
Compensation
For unauthorised transactions (e.g. account takeover or malware attack)
The bank must first evaluate their own security controls followed by whether your actions contribute to the fraud incident
Compensation is not guaranteed in all cases
Principle of joint responsibility
No compensation
Full compensation Partial compensation If the bank has acted as required and
If the fraud loss is solely If you share some fault and the bank does you are solely at fault (e.g. download
caused by gaps in the bank’s not act fast to stop further losses harmful mobile applications despite
security controls after the first fraud attempt prior warnings) or you refuse to
cooperate in the investigation
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
82 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
From Policy to Practice: One Year On
SEFT came into effect in October 2024. Since then, BNM has been closely monitoring banks’
implementation. The initial focus has been on how banks manage fraud cases and allocate fraud losses.
So, has SEFT really made a difference?
We have begun to see encouraging signs (Diagram 2). Initial findings show that SEFT has made banks more
accountable and transparent in carrying out investigations. This is validated by an increase in the number of
victims receiving either full or partial compensation in 2025 by about 26% compared to the previous year.
Banks have also taken proactive steps to strengthen malware defences, with some reporting zero malware
cases in 2025. This pre-emptively prevents unauthorised transactions, thereby reducing the need for
reactive compensation. Some improvements attributed to SEFT implementation include:
• Greater accountability in investigation: Banks check for weaknesses in their systems first before
placing any accountability on customers. In several cases, banks fully absorbed losses upon
identifying system weakness.
• Greater transparency around customer rights: Banks inform victims upfront of their rights during
the investigation process. Banks are showing greater consistency in completing investigations within
the expected 14-day timeline. This reflects timelier case management, while maintaining the rigour
of the process. For cases that take longer, banks are offering temporary financial assistance to help
victims with daily needs.
• Faster system fixes: Compensation decisions push banks to address system weaknesses more quickly.
Diagram 2: An Illustration of the Impact of SEFT
Fraud incidents:
Occurrence of multiple fraudulent transactions at Bank A and Bank B, involving unauthorised transactions
Bank A and Bank B applied the principles under the Policy Document on Ensuring Fair Treatment for
Victims of Unauthorised e-Banking Transactions
Investigation Compensation
Both Bank A and Bank B carried out detailed investigation Given that the fraud losses were solely caused by gaps
of fraud cases, with adequate focus on identifying in the banks’ security controls, both banks took full
weaknesses in their security controls accountability
Investigations uncovered specific weaknesses in
existing controls that had enabled the fraud to occur:
Bank A: Fraudsters bypassed cooling-off
period in its fund transfer system Bank A and Bank B refunded all affected customers
in full
Bank B: Fraudsters exploited
weaknesses in its authentication process
Remedial actions
Bank A and Bank B identified weak points
in their security controls
Both banks promptly fixed the weaknesses and
strengthened their security measures to prevent
recurrence of fraud
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 83


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
These developments not only safeguarded consumers’ interests but also paved the way for quicker
fixing of control gaps. In turn, these led to further strengthening of security and trust in the overall
banking system.
Where We Need to Raise the Bar
While progress is clear, further areas for improvement include:
• Navigating shared accountability amid evolving fraud risks: Fraud cases are becoming more
complex as tactics continue to evolve. It is much harder to distinguish between genuine and
fraudulent interactions and attribute culpability. This adds to the challenges in implementing a fair
compensation framework.
Recognising this, SEFT offers a structured approach to assigning accountability, fostering clarity and
consistency in how cases are assessed. Under SEFT, banks must first assess the effectiveness of
their own controls before considering customer actions. This ensures case reviews are balanced and
support the reasoning behind case outcomes, even in complex situations. As implementation of SEFT
matures, BNM expects increased consistency in how shared accountability is implemented. Such
consistency will be key in maintaining trust in resolution outcomes.
• Access to alternative dispute resolution channels: Compensation offered by a bank is not the end
of the process. Many customers remain unaware of their rights and channels available if they are not
happy with compensation offered by the bank.
Customers can dispute the bank’s decision by bringing their case to the Financial Markets
Ombudsman Service (FMOS).4 Banks must make this channel known to customers and remind them
of its availability. This ensures that consumers can exercise their rights with confidence.
Looking Ahead
The first year of SEFT shows early alignment with the principles of fair treatment and shared
accountability. However, the fight against fraud is far from over. In fact, it is an ongoing process. Further
efforts to strengthen prevention, enforcement and recovery, as well as consumer protection continue to
be pursued.
As knowledge is the most effective shield against scams and helps build a more vigilant society, efforts
on consumer education are also being accelerated. This is especially important as about 95% of online
fraud cases in Malaysia are authorised transactions.5 Diagram 3 outlines the key habits consumers must
adopt to better protect themselves from scams.
BNM will also explore stronger protection for vulnerable consumers. This includes assessing whether
expanding SEFT’s scope would help address the risks faced by this group, while accounting for the
level of digital financial literacy and fraud landscape in Malaysia. At the same time, BNM recognises
that potential behavioural changes from this expansion could unintentionally compromise customer
vigilance. This initiative forms part of multi-pronged efforts to combat fraud and preserve trust in our
financial system.
The approach taken in other countries where telecommunication service providers and digital platforms
are covered in their compensation frameworks also gives us additional frontiers to consider. Given the
critical role of these players in the digital ecosystem, there is merit for Malaysia to consider broadening
participation in fraud compensation to further strengthen consumer protection and uphold accountability
across all parties.
4 Affected customers may reach FMOS via their portal here: (https://complaint.fmos.org.my/index.php).
5 These refer to cases where victims are deceived into transferring money to fraudsters under false pretences. Here, fraudsters use social
engineering tactics to exploit emotions like greed, fear, or love, making individuals vulnerable to fraud.
84 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PROMOTING SAFE AND EFFICIENT PAYMENT AND REMITTANCE SERVICES
Diagram 3: Protecting Oneself from Scams
Your Habits,
Your Shield
Pause before you act Check before you click
Stop and think if something Avoid strange links and
feels urgent, threatening, verify the legitimacy of
or too good to be true web addresses
Keep passwords private Report fast
Never share your security Call your bank’s hotline or
credentials or one-time National Scam Response
passwords with anyone Centre at 997 to report any
suspicious activity
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 85


Issuing Currency
As the sole issuer of Malaysian Ensuring Operational Resilience
currency, BNM’s mandate is to
Securing cash availability at all times requires a
ensure ringgit banknotes and coins well-coordinated and robust currency operations
framework. We achieve this by maintaining
are reliable, accessible and trusted.
adequate stock levels and strive to process and
distribute banknotes efficiently.
We also ensure that there is enough
currency in circulation (CIC), with All banknote processing in Peninsular Malaysia
now takes place at our Automated Cash Centre
genuine and high-quality banknotes
(ACC). The shift to centralise all processing
activities to a single, purpose-built facility has
and coins.
allowed BNM to strengthen efficiency, improve
risk controls and leverage on automation. In turn,
this minimises interruptions in the processing and
Currency in Circulation
distribution of banknotes nationwide.
Cash continues to be in demand even as digital
In 2025, BNM processed 1.7 billion banknotes
payments gain momentum (Chart 1). This
(2024: 2.5 billion), with 86% handled through
phenomenon is not unique to Malaysia, and a
ACC (2024: 69%). The remaining volume was
number of factors underpin this trend. For many,
supported by currency operations undertaken by
cash is easy to use and works even when digital our regional offices in East Malaysia.1 Resiliency
systems are disrupted or when connectivity is
of currency operations is further reinforced by the
limited such as during natural disasters. In these
broader cash industry. For instance, Registered
instances, the ability to continue transacting sustains Currency Processors2 (RCPs) continue to take on
confidence in the financial system and reduces
a larger role in supporting day-to-day processing
stress on the economy. Cash enables those in rural
activities such as the collecting, sorting and
areas and the unbanked population to participate
packing of currency. They complement BNM’s
in economic activities. For these reasons, strong
centralised operations and ensure timely
currency management is a strategic priority for us.
distribution of banknotes to meet public demand.
It is central to safeguarding stability and preserving
public confidence in Malaysia’s financial system.
Recirculating Banknotes and
Chart 1: Annual CIC Value and Growth
Coins
CIC Value (RM billion) CIC Growth (%)
200 18 Recirculation is a key component of a sustainable
170.7177.7
cash ecosystem. By reusing fit banknotes and
160 14
140 12 ensuring coins flow back into the economy, BNM
120 10 reduces waste, lowers production needs and
100 8
5.5 supports a more circular currency ecosystem.
80 6
4.1
60 4
40 2 In 2025, BNM issued 1.9 billion banknotes, with
20 0
67% classified as fit banknotes (2024: 66%). This
0 -2
20152016201720182019202020212022202320242025 steady trend reflects BNM’s continued efforts to
Year
incorporate sustainability considerations into its
CIC Value (RM billion) CIC Growth (%) currency management operations.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
1 The remaining 14% was processed by BNM Regional Office Kota
Kinabalu and BNM Regional Office Kuching.
2 Registered Currency Processors are business entities which carry
out currency processing business for financial institutions.
86 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ISSUING CURRENCY
Coins, on the other hand, play a distinct role in Cutting-Edge Solutions for a
supporting everyday transactions, especially
Sustainable Currency Ecosystem
exact-value and small-value retail transactions.
Yet, coins often lay idle with households and
businesses. This creates inefficiencies and leads BNM continues to explore innovative ways to
to more coins being produced than needed. To reduce waste and repurpose materials. Currently,
address this, BNM has developed recirculation BNM disposes shredded banknote waste
strategies (Diagram 1) and expanded the role of (paper and polymer) through Waste-to-Energy
our appointed Coin Agents (CAs) in 2025. Beyond (WTE) facility. This method converts shredded
distributing coins from Malaysia Mint (MyMint), banknote waste into combustion material used
CAs now also process and redistribute coins for electricity generation. This year, more than 506
collected from financial institutions and retailers million banknotes were disposed through WTE
(Diagram 2). These efforts have begun to show conversion, generating more than 362 MWh of
results. By end-December 2025, coin recirculation energy – enough to power 452 homes for a month.
initiatives accounted for 31% of total coins issued
(2024: 18%), with 169.1 million coins channelled In 2025, BNM was one of the first amongst our
back through financial institutions and CAs. regional and international peers to conduct a
proof-of-concept exercise to recycle Malaysia’s
BNM will continue to scale coin collection initiatives shredded paper banknotes (Diagram 3). This
to improve efficiency and accessibility nationwide. builds on our 20243 success in converting
This includes collaborating better with financial shredded polymer banknotes into furniture.
institutions and businesses so that excess coins
are returned to circulation promptly as well as We partnered with a local recycler and completed
increasing the number of coin collection points. a trial to repurpose cotton-based banknote waste.
Diagram 1: BNM’s Approach Towards an Inclusive, Efficient and Future-Proof Coin Ecosystem
1 2 3 4 5
Increased coin Enhanced customer Active involvement of Establishment of resilient Optimal coin
recirculation rate experience with industry players ecosystem to support coin issuance
minimal friction and public recirculation sustainability
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Diagram 2: BNM’s Coin Agents
Newly Minted Coins Circulation of New and Fit Coins
Acronyms:
FIs = Financial Institutions
CoDMs = Coin Deposit Machines
FIs CoDMs
Public
FIs
CAs CAs
Retailers FIs
Public
MyMint Retailers
Emerging CoDMs
Players Retailers
Coin Agents are appointed entities tasked to store, process, package, receive and distribute coins nationwide in accordance with BNM’s requirements.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
3 For further information on BNM’s proof of concept exercise to
recycle polymer banknotes, please refer to BNM Annual Report
2024 at (https://www.bnm.gov.my/documents/20124/17493532/
ar2024_en_book.pdf/).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 87


ISSUING CURRENCY
This is a complex process due to the small size of Integrity of Malaysian Currency
shredded banknotes, the presence of embedded
security features and lower absorbency compared Currency must be genuine and secure as
to traditional wood pulp paper. Now, paper banknote confidence in money underpins confidence in
waste material can be an alternative source of raw the financial system and economy. Counterfeit
material for good quality paper-based products currency can disrupt payment transactions and
such as notebooks, art paper and money packets. erode public trust. This necessitates BNM to
BNM will continue to explore scalable solutions actively monitor counterfeit activity in Malaysia to
with industry partners to integrate such sustainable be ahead of emerging threats.
practices across the currency ecosystem.
Malaysia’s counterfeit rate is lower than
Diagram 3: Process Flow for Paper Banknote benchmarked countries,4 declining from 1.7
Recycling parts per million (ppm) in 2024 to 1.2 ppm in
2025 (Chart 2). This reduction reflects stronger
Inspection and sorting collaboration with Royal Malaysia Police, including
Ensure recycling compliance and no contamination. intercepting counterfeit currency before it enters
circulation. Efforts also include timely information
Preparation and cleaning sharing, strategic coordination to facilitate
Screen material to remove residue and add chemicals in
investigations and implementation of effective
preparation for recycling.
measures against counterfeiting activities.
Refining and processing
Improve fibre quality. Chart 2: Malaysia's Counterfeiting Index
Pulping Parts per million (ppm)
Process material into a slurry pulp to separate fibre 2.0 1.9
content. 1.8 1.6 1.7
1.6 1.4
Remanufacturing 1 1 . . 2 4 1.1 1.2 1.2
Spread pulp onto screens where it forms a sheet. The 1.0 0.8 0.8
sheet is pressed and dried, and then the dried sheets are 0.8
rolled into reels. 0.6
0.4 0.3 0.3
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia 0.2
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Year
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Strengthening Regional
Collaboration on Currency
Management
Regional collaboration is increasingly important
as central banks face common challenges
such as rapid technological disruption, evolving
cash usage trends and the need for stronger
data-driven currency management. Thus far,
BNM worked with regional counterparts to
establish a sustained and structured platform
for cooperation. This effort is anchored by a
newly formed Community of Practice (CoP),
established following the inaugural Regional
Currency Directors’ Forum held in Kuala Lumpur
in December 2025.
4 The counterfeit rates of benchmarked countries range between 3
and 20 ppm. (Source: Websites and annual reports of respective
Cash packets and notebooks produced from banknote material central banks.)
88 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ISSUING CURRENCY
Designed as a dedicated platform for central
banks and monetary authorities in Southeast
Asia,5 the Forum serves as the first step towards
deeper, institutionalised cooperation on currency-
related matters. This guides strategic and
technical collaboration across Southeast Asia,
marking a key milestone in strengthening long-
term regional currency management.
Grounded in the principles of connect,
communicate and collaborate, the Forum
brought together representatives to exchange
perspectives, share operational insights, and
explore opportunities for future joint initiatives
The first Regional Currency Directors’ Forum hosted by BNM,
(Diagram 4). with 21 delegates from regional central banks and monetary
authorities
Diagram 4: Shaping the Future of Regional
Currency Management
CONNECT
Build the foundation to
sustain long-standing
professional relationships.
COMMUNICATE
Exchange experiences,
discuss challenges and
lessons learned.
COLLABORATE
Avenue to explore
opportunities for joint Forum participants discussing prevalent currency issues
initiatives.
Strategic Outreach through
Currency Education
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia Programmes
Enhancing public understanding of Malaysia’s
Participants shared actionable approaches to currency is a key part of strengthening
common challenges, from strengthening currency confidence in cash. In 2025, BNM continued
resilience to navigating shifts in consumer payment to strengthen currency knowledge through
behaviour. Future areas for joint efforts include the Currency Master Trainer and Know Your
automation, counterfeit management, sustainable Currency programmes across all regions in
operations and emerging technologies. Malaysia. These efforts went beyond financial
institutions and RCPs and included government
During a technical visit to MyMint and ACC, agencies and business organisations such as
delegates were able to benchmark BNM’s Royal Malaysia Police, Royal Malaysian Customs
advanced automation capabilities and observe Department, business chambers and academic
end-to-end cash processing workflows. These institutions. These programmes reached about
visits reinforced the value of collaboration by 700 participants nationwide, equipping them with
translating knowledge shared during discussions knowledge on currency quality, authentication
into real operational insights. and discussions on BNM’s policies.
5 The Forum was attended by delegates from Brunei Darussalam
Central Bank, National Bank of Cambodia, Bank Indonesia, Bank
of the Lao P.D.R, Central Bank of Myanmar, Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas, Bank of Thailand, and Banco Central de Timor Leste.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 89


ISSUING CURRENCY
Complementing engagements with the industry,
BNM also stepped up currency education efforts
to the public, including through Karnival Celik
Kewangan (KCK) in Pulau Pinang and Tawau.
These focused on helping the public recognise
genuine banknotes and coins, handle currency
properly and understand the importance of
coin recirculation. BNM also strengthened its
education efforts through social media campaigns
featuring content on currency care and
recirculation. These efforts aim to keep the public
and industry players well-informed and aligned
with BNM’s goals for a secure and efficient
payment system.
BNM’s booth on currency education during KCK in Tawau
Numismatic Activity
Currency is more than a medium of exchange.
It is also a reflection of our culture, history and
national identity. Commemorative coins serve to
mark Malaysia’s national milestones and shared
identity. Through design and symbols, these
coins preserve stories for future generations while
reinforcing the role of currency as both functional
and cultural.
In 2025, BNM issued two limited-edition
commemorative coins to mark significant
national milestones and regional achievements.
These were a coin commemorating Malaysia’s
Chairmanship of ASEAN in 2025 and another
celebrating the 75th anniversary of the
Penang Chief Minister visiting BNM’s booth during KCK in
Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
Penang
Diagram 5: Commemorative Coins
Obverse (left) and reverse (right) design of Obverse (left) and reverse (right) design of 75th
ASEAN-Malaysia Chairmanship 2025 anniversary of the Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
commemorative coin. Minted on Nordic gold and in Minted on Nordic gold and sterling silver.
colour on sterling silver.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
90 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ISSUING CURRENCY
Going Forward industry involvement in the retail distribution and
recirculation of currency. At the same time, we
BNM is committed to preserving the availability, will strengthen enforcement efforts under the
integrity and quality of Malaysia’s currency, while Currency Act 2020 to preserve public confidence
driving sustainability and innovation. As the in our currency. These initiatives collectively will
currency landscape evolves, BNM will continue keep Malaysia’s currency ecosystem secure,
to enhance its policies to promote greater sustainable and future-ready.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 91


Maintaining Financial Integrity
Malaysia’s upgrade in the latest financing of terrorism and countering proliferation
financing (AML/CFT/CPF) strategic direction and
mutual evaluation by the Financial
initiatives. This ensures a robust national AML/
Action Task Force affirms the CFT/CPF framework which is in alignment with
international standards and best practices.
strengthened effectiveness of the
Diagram 1: Notable Achievements in 2025
country’s AML/CFT/CPF regime. It
also reinforces global confidence in
Malaysia’s upgrade to the highest tier category in the
the integrity of our financial system. Mutual Evaluation (ME)
This milestone reflects sustained
Strengthened regi onal and indu stry coo peration
reforms, credible enforcement and through capacity–building programmes, conferences,
forums and ASEA N–driven initiat ives
strong whole-of-nation collaboration
in combatting ML/TF/PF.
Enhanced sc am preve ntion, with the N ationa l Sca m
Response Centre (NSRC) recording more than
doubl e mule ac count d isruptions a nd funds froze n
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
BNM’s Role
BNM is the competent authority that oversees In 2025, national efforts were intensified towards
and administers the Anti-Money Laundering, the preparation for the ME. The ME assesses
Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of a country’s effectiveness and compliance
Unlawful Activities Act 2001 (AMLA 2001). As with the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF)
the competent authority, we act as the country’s standards. Preparations were extensive to
financial intelligence unit (FIU). We also supervise ensure the country is ready for the assessment.
reporting institutions on matters relating to money These include on-site interviews and reviews
laundering, terrorism financing and proliferation of the draft ME report ahead of its discussion
financing (ML/TF/PF).1 To promote a whole-of- and decision at the FATF Plenary. Assessment
government approach, BNM acts as the Chair and is done on a peer review basis covering a wide
Secretariat of the National Coordination Committee range of areas. These include risk management,
to Counter Money Laundering (NCC). The NCC international cooperation, supervision, preventive
brings together 19 ministries and agencies.2 It measures, financial intelligence and enforcement.
serves as the national inter-agency platform that The results can impact a country’s reputation,
formulates, coordinates, implements and monitors investor confidence, ease of doing business and
Malaysia’s anti-money laundering, countering compliance costs.
1 Reporting institutions are defined in the First Schedule of AMLA
2001 and includes the financial institutions, non-bank financial
institutions and designated non-financial businesses and
professions.
2 These include the Attorney General’s Chambers, Companies
Commission of Malaysia, Immigration Department of Malaysia,
Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia, Labuan Financial Services
Authority, Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission, Ministry
of Domestic Trade and Cost of Living, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry
of Investment, Trade and Industry, National Anti-Financial
Crime Centre, Registrar of Societies, Royal Malaysia Police,
Royal Malaysian Customs Department, Securities Commission
Malaysia, Legal Affairs Division of Prime Minister’s Department
(as an observer), Department of Wildlife and National Parks
Peninsular Malaysia (as an observer) and BNM.
92 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


MAINTAINING FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
As the national coordinator as well as the Chair and purpose to address Malaysia’s risk exposures amid
Secretariat of the NCC, we organised preparatory national, regional and global developments. This
sessions including mock assessments ahead of includes taking into account key recommended
the on-site ME visit in February 2025. These efforts actions in the ME report.6
strengthened coordination across agencies and
showcased Malaysia’s whole-of-nation approach.
Strengthening AML/CFT/CPF
As a result, Malaysia’s ME report was successfully
adopted at the FATF Plenary in October 2025. Measures through Coordinated
Malaysia’s upgrade to the highest follow-up
National and Regional Efforts
category reflects significant enhancements in the
country’s AML/CFT/CPF regime since the 2015
Recognising these areas of improvement,
evaluation.3 This places Malaysia among a small
Malaysia will recalibrate the NCC Roadmap
group of FATF member countries4 in the regular
2024–26 to align with the key recommended
follow-up process.5 It also underscores stronger
actions in the ME report.
technical compliance and a more effective AML/
CFT/CPF framework. Diagram 2 highlights the
outcomes of ME report. Reinforcing the Nation’s AML/CFT/CPF
Regime
The NCC also monitors the implementation of the
NCC Roadmap 2024–26, which outlines Malaysia’s During the year, the Anti-Money Laundering,
national priorities and actions to strengthen its Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of
AML/CFT/CPF regime. The aim is such that AML/ Unlawful Activities (Amendment) Act 2025
CFT/CPF efforts stay agile, effective and fit-for- received royal assent and was gazetted.
Diagram 2: Outcomes of FATF’s Mutual Evaluation
Recognising Malaysia’s continued progress in enhancing its Beyond the positive progress acknowledged, the ME report also
AML/CFT/CPF regime, the ME report acknowledges the following highlig hted priority areas that require further effor ts in order t o
advancements: sustain a robust AML/CFT/CPF sy stem w hich in cl ude:
A comprehensive le gal and instit utional framew ork covering Intensifying money-laundering investigations and
AML/CFT /CPF measures , internation al cooperatio n, asset prosecutions with efforts extending beyond self-laundering
recovery and targeted financial sanctions (TFS). cases to encompass more complex ML typologies.
Stron g unders tand ing o f M L/TF/PF r isks, driv en by reg ular Strengthening asset recovery efforts across a broader range
national and thematic risk assessments. of cases.
Robust domestic coordination, led by the NCC and Enhancing international cooperation to ensure timely and
supported by operational coordination mechanisms, e.g. the efficient cross-border assistance.
National Anti-Financial Crime Centre (NFCC), Multi-Agency
Task Force (MATF) and Strategic Trade Action Committee
Improving the supervision of designated non-financial
(STAC).
businesses and professions (DNFBPs), particularly in risk
Strong licensing framework1, solid understanding of risks identification and the depth of inspections.
and effective risk-based supervision measures of financial
institutions and virtual asset service providers (VASPs). Ensuring that beneficial ownership information is accurate,
adequate and consistently updated.
A well-functioning FIU with robust cooperation mechanisms,
advanced analytics, and broad data access to effectively
support law enforcement agencies (LEAs).
Effective TF investigations and prosecutions which reflects
robust implementation of TF and PF–TFS obligations.
Effective identification of at-risk non-profit organisations
(NPOs) to enable the application of risk-based oversight and
monitoring measures.
1 This includes usage of sanction mechanisms by supervisors, and financial institutions and VASPs understanding their AML/CFT/CPF obligations
and ML/TF/PF risks. This is demonstrated by the implementation of appropriate mitigating measures, including customer due diligence process,
compliance programme and reporting of suspicious transaction reports.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
3 Previously in 2015 ME, Malaysia was placed in the ʽEnhanced 6 Further details can be found in the ME report (see Malaysia’s
Follow-up categoryʼ. measures to counter money laundering, terrorist financing and
4 These include FATF member countries that have gone through the proliferation financing).
previous rounds of ME.
5 There are three tiers of follow-up categories i.e. ʽRegular Follow-
upʼ, ʽEnhanced Follow-upʼ and ʽReferral to the International Co-
operation Review Group (ICRG)ʼ.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 93


MAINTAINING FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
BNM lent support to the Ministry of Home
Affairs at the ASEAN Senior Officials Meeting
on Transnational Crime (SOMTC). The meeting
achieved two major milestones. First, the
SOMTC set up the Working Group on Money
Laundering (WG on ML). Secondly, the meeting
paved the way for the issuance of the first
ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Combating
Money Laundering. The SOMTC WG on ML will
further strengthen regional cooperation through
sharing of information and best practices as well
as elevating ASEAN’s AML/CFT/CPF strategies
to be in line with international standards.
Adoption of Malaysia’s ME report at the October 2025 FATF Plenary
BNM also hosted the inaugural ASEAN DNFBPs
Supervisor Forum, with 120 participants from
The amendments have come into effect
across ASEAN. At the forum, participants shared
as of 1 March 2026. This brought greater
best practices in combating ML/TF/PF risks
alignment with the latest FATF standards
and in addressing supervisory gaps. The forum
and methodology. The amendments also
also explored potential joint supervision, shared
addressed operational challenges in relation
cross-border risks and showcased supervisory
to the freezing, seizure and forfeiture of illicit
technology (SupTech) initiatives that can help
proceeds. These amendments would among
elevate supervisory effectiveness.
others, enable more effective investigation and
prosecution efforts, as well as improve clarity
Additionally, BNM partners with our counterparts
on compliance by reporting institutions.
here and abroad to enhance crime detection
and intelligence. We also advance regional and
Enhancing Collaboration Efforts on AML/
industry cooperation through capacity building
CFT/CPF Measures initiatives, conferences, and forums (Diagram 3).
These platforms allow us to deepen coordination
As the 2025 ASEAN Chair, Malaysia led efforts with domestic LEAs and the private sector. They
to foster greater common understanding of ML/ also improve efforts on early identification of
TF/PF threats, vulnerabilities and emerging risks red flags, emerging threats, and the character
amongst member states. This enabled Malaysia to vetting process. These collective efforts allow the
shape regional priorities to combat financial crimes country to better respond to potential financial
and promote sustainable development through crimes and reinforce the resilience and integrity
transparent and resilient financial systems. of the financial system.
94 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


MAINTAINING FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
Diagram 3: Snapshot of Regional and Industry Collaboration Initiatives
• Hosted by The Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers (AICB) and Compliance Officers’ Networking Group (CONG), and
supported by BNM, Securities Commission Malaysia and Labuan Financial Services Authority.
• The theme focused on the fight against financial crime and technology-driven compliance. The event drew one of
the largest crowds in recent years, with over 1,300 participants.
• The three-day conference strengthened shared capabilities. It also gathered an extensive range of public and
private sector experts, from both international organisations (e.g. The Egmont Group, Australian Transaction
Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) and the Singapore Police Force) as well as domestic LEAs, ministries and
supervisory authorities.
• The IFCTF explored a wide range of critical topics. These include enhanced due diligence processes, global
financial crime risks, emerging fraud typologies and revisions to the AML/CFT/CPF and TFS requirements. The
International
conference also featured AI-driven compliance enhancements and fraud detections through real-time analytics and
Conference on
behavioural monitoring.
Financial Crime
and Counter
Terrorism
Financing (IFCTF)
15th International Conference on Financial Crime and Counter Terrorism Financing
• Together with public and private sector representatives, BNM participated in the APG Typologies Workshop. The
workshop focused on emerging ML/TF/PF risks, including cyber scam hubs.
• We presented Malaysia’s multi-pronged approach to financial scams, including through the FIU, the National Fraud
Portal (NFP), public-private partnerships and initiatives under the National Scam Response Centre (NSRC).
Asia / Pacific
Group on Money
Laundering (APG)
Typologies
Workshop
2025 APG Typologies Workshop
• Co-hosted by BNM and AUSTRAC with participants from relevant agencies including BNM, Royal Malaysia Police
(RMP), Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission and Royal Malaysian Customs Department.
• The course strengthened participants’ capabilities to detect and respond to ML/TF risks, while deepening their
understanding of criminal methods linked to organised crime, corruption and drug offences.
Financial
Intelligence
Analyst Course
(FIAC)
2025 Financial Intelligence Analyst Course
• BNM hosted the Supervisory College for regional supervisors of a banking group. This brought together
representatives from regional supervisory authorities including Otoritas Jasa Keuangan Indonesia, Monetary
Supervisory Authority of Singapore and the Bank of Thailand.
College • This platform facilitates timely sharing of ML/TF/PF emerging risks and vulnerabilities in the region and cross-border
cooperation and coordination among supervisors in multiple jurisdictions.
• It helps strengthen safeguards against cross-border risks and vulnerabilities that criminals seek to exploit, thereby
advancing global efforts to combat financial crime.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 95


MAINTAINING FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
Sharing of Financial Intelligence to high-risk crimes9 and national security matters
(Chart 1). Stakeholders do acknowledge FIU’s
and Supporting Law Enforcement
support in efforts to combat crimes within their
respective jurisdictions, both within Malaysia and
BNM is committed to sharing financial intelligence
internationally.
through its FIU. The FIU works closely with
domestic LEAs and foreign FIUs to support ML/
Chart 1: Financial Intelligence Disclosures by
TF/PF investigations.
Serious Offences in 2025
In 2025, the FIU held six industry-wide sharing Fraud
sessions with banks, non-bank e-money issuers,
Smuggling, illicit drug trafficking
money services businesses, capital market
23% 22% and organised crimes
intermediaries and Labuan entities. These
Corruption
sessions clarified expectations and provided
guidance on submitting quality suspicious 5% 10% National security (terrorism/
terrorism financing and
transaction reports (STRs). Additionally, the FIU
10% proliferation financing)
also shared several red flags and typologies
30%
Tax offences
reports with reporting institutions. These
initiatives helped to improve awareness. This led Other offences
to better articulation and detection of evolving
Note : ‘Other offences’ include offences related to sexual
crimes and more comprehensive analysis in STR exploitation, human trafficking, illegal remittance etc.
submissions. In 2025, we received over 430,000
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
STRs compared to about 342,000 STRs the year
earlier. Money laundering was the highest reported
suspected offence, accounting for 47% of the Measures to Elevate and
total STRs, followed by fraud, tax offences and
Coordinate Fraud Response
corruption. The FIU uses advanced data analytic
tools such as network visualisation to identify
links between STRs, entities and accounts. This Fraud has consistently ranked among the higher-
helps focus investigations on higher risk cases and risk crimes in all five iterations of the National
supports case reviews. To remain effective against Risk Assessment (NRA) on ML/TF since 2013.
evolving financial crimes, the FIU regularly updates The NSRC remains the first responder to financial
its analytical methods and works closely with scams, continuing to deliver swift tracing of stolen
reporting institutions to improve the quality and funds and responses to online financial fraud.
usefulness of STRs submitted. The NSRC now operates as a 24-hour, seven-
day-a-week hub for scam response through the
The FIU works closely with domestic LEAs to NSRC hotline (997). Since July 2025, the NSRC
support investigations into crimes such as money is managed by the RMP’s Commercial Crime
laundering, fraud, corruption, smuggling and Investigation Department. This gives the NSRC
organised crime. Through joint taskforces such direct powers to investigate as well as to act
as those coordinated by the NFCC and the MATF, quickly and efficiently. Diagram 4 highlights the
this collaboration led to more than 65 arrests NSRC’s key outcomes in 2025.
and the seizure, freezing and recovery of criminal
assets worth over RM400 million – more than Scam tactics continue to evolve. This raises the
double the 2024 amount. Shared intelligence also need for timely access to comprehensive and high-
aided surveillance and investigations relating to quality data to facilitate effective fund tracing and
national security7 matters. fraud detection. It also requires a more coordinated
and robust industry-wide response. BNM regularly
Besides domestic LEAs, the FIU actively shared reviews measures implemented under the NFP10
financial intelligence8 with more than 25 foreign with Payments Network Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (PayNet)
FIUs in 2025, as part of international cooperation and industry players. These have strengthened the
efforts. In some cases, such sharing also led to NFP, broadening coverage to more entities and
investigations by foreign authorities. About 25% data sets, making it easier to trace illicit funds. The
of disclosures made by the FIU was to foreign industry has also rolled out a standard protocol
FIUs. Overall, about 70% of total disclosures for e-money issuers to handle mule accounts and
made to domestic LEAs and foreign FIUs relate improve information quality and integrity, aligning
7 National security covers terrorism/terrorism financing and 9 High-risk crimes include fraud, corruption, organised crimes,
proliferation financing. smuggling and drugs trafficking, as identified under the NRA 2023.
8 The sharing of financial intelligence to support law enforcement 10 The NFP is an integrated platform to strengthen the operational
investigations into financial crimes. capabilities of the NSRC. It automates the end-to-end process of
handling scam reports and tracing of stolen funds by the NSRC.
96 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


MAINTAINING FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
Diagram 4: NSRC’s Key Outcomes in 2025
NSRC’s Key Outcomes in 2025
Opened 24,013 investigation papers involving cheating and issued freezing orders on targeted collection accounts amounting
to RM19 million.
Identified and stopped 162,642 suspected mule accounts, making it harder for criminals to move and hide stolen funds.
Attended to 138,953 calls on online financial scams from the public, of which 83,232 calls were from scammed victims.
Source: NSRC
with the measures adopted by banks in 2024. (i.e. lawyers, dealers in precious metals or precious
New features currently being explored such as stones, and registered estate agents). BNM also
tampered identity card detection and advanced supported Companies Commission of Malaysia
fraud analytics will further help to spot fraudulent and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants in their
activities faster. Collectively, these upgrades supervision of their respective sectors. This has led
improve fraud response and accountability in the to stronger AML/CFT/CPF oversight and sector-
financial system. specific risk understanding, resulting in improved
implementation of AML/CFT/CPF policies.
Amendments to the Penal Code and Criminal
Procedure Code which came into effect in BNM maintained its commitment to enforcement
October 2024 have led to higher enforcement as a deterrent against non-compliance. In 2025, we
against mule accounts. In 2025, 969 convictions took several enforcement actions such as issuing
were secured against mule account holders. warning letters, directive orders, administrative
These multi-pronged actions underscore the monetary penalty and compound. These actions
whole-of-government approach to dismantle mule signal our expectation for reporting institutions to
account networks. strictly comply with AML/CFT/CPF obligations.11
We continue to work with the industry to build a
Promoting Sustainable AML/CFT/
strong compliance culture. We do this through
CPF Compliance of Financial regular engagements and forums, like with the
CONG, to hear insights on the current issues,
Institutions and DNFBPs
challenges and possible solutions. This helps
improve understanding of financial crimes and
BNM continues to strengthen its role in ensuring a
emerging threats, thereby enabling faster detection
robust AML/CFT/CPF compliance culture across
and quicker response. BNM also complements
the financial and DNFBP sectors. Our supervisory
these engagements with regular publications on
approach stressed on sustainability, accountability
regulatory expectations and developments to
and adaptability to evolving risks. To achieve this,
financial institutions and DNFBPs.
we continue to employ a range of supervisory
tools and strengthen our risk-based supervisory
activities. This includes leveraging SupTech for Going Forward
efficiency and effectiveness.
In 2026, BNM will continue to strengthen the
In addition to ongoing focus of supervision on ML/ implementation of AML/CFT/CPF standards. Our
TF/PF risk and controls in financial institutions focus lies on addressing the areas highlighted in
we regulate, we did a thematic review across the ME report and in implementing the strategies
the banking industry. The review assessed in the NCC Roadmap. These include working
the adequacy and effectiveness of transaction better with LEAs, supervisory authorities, and
monitoring and sanctions screening systems. We the private sector. At the same time, we intend to
will inform the banking sector on the findings to continue leveraging technology to address evolving
elevate industry standards and shape industry ML/TF/PF risks – including cross-border threats.
best practices. Malaysia’s current standing provides a solid
foundation and calls for sustained effort and further
For DNFBPs, we continued our focus of on- improvements to uphold global standards and
site supervision across higher-risk sectors safeguard the nation’s financial integrity.
11 More information on enforcement actions taken can be found in the
‘Promoting Financial Stability’ chapter.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 97


aisyalaM
arageN
knaB
gniganaM


aisyalaM
arageN
knaB
gniganaM


Managing
Bank Negara Malaysia
People challenges. This inclusive approach ensures our
whole workforce remain agile, skilled and ready
for the evolving financial and technological
landscape.
Building BNM’s Future-Ready
Workforce In building an inclusive and sustainable
talent ecosystem, attracting new talent and
Building a future-ready workforce is central developing our people are critical. So is
to BNM’s mission of promoting monetary making leaders stay adaptive in an increasingly
and financial stability for sustainable growth. complex and dynamic operating environment.
Our efforts span across all segments of our In 2025, we therefore focused on strengthening
workforce, from early-career entrants to mid- our early-career talent pipeline, deepening
career professionals and seasoned experts. central banking business acumen, leveraging
Every generation brings unique strengths technology and AI responsibly and promoting
that collectively help BNM respond to future wellness and wellbeing.
Diagram 1: Multi-Generational and Gender-Balanced Workforce
Senior Management 66% 32%
Manager 34% 65%
First Level Executive 13% 52% 35%
KGP 99%
Non-Executive 35% 57% 7%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Baby Boomers (1949-64) Gen X (1965-80) Millennials (1981-96) Gen Z (1997 onwards)
Senior Management 59% 41%
Manager 45% 55%
First Level Executive 45% 55%
51% 49%
KGP 51% 49%
Non-Executive 65% 35%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Male Female Male Female
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
110000 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PEOPLE
Our diverse and gender-balanced workforce, Analyst and Digital Graduate Analyst, that runs
spanning young and experienced talent, over a period of 18-months, where graduates
supported by targeted capability-building rotate across three central banking functions.
programmes and leadership development This enables the graduates to gain hands-on
efforts, positions BNM strongly for the future. exposure to economic surveillance and policy
This ensures that we continue to cultivate analysis, financial stability and development, as
a deep pipeline of emerging leaders while well as corporate management. These are done
preserving institutional knowledge and thought under the guidance of experienced mentors.
leadership for years to come. This structured exposure helps graduates
understand how distinct functions work
together to advance BNM’s mandate, enabling
Kijang Graduate Program (KGP): meaningful contributions early in their careers.
Early Career Talent Pipeline
Deepening Central Banking
Within our broader talent strategy, early-career
programme forms an important initiative. We Business Acumen
aim to inspire young Malaysians to view central
banking as a career that is meaningful and BNM continues to strengthen workforce
impactful. Our goal is to attract individuals who capabilities. This is necessary to ensure that
are both eager to contribute to nation building our talent remains agile, future-ready and
and ready to navigate the challenges of a fast- equipped with emerging skills essential to
evolving economic and financial landscape. central banking. We expanded our technical
learning efforts by creating more opportunities
In 2025, we continued to expand our outreach for staff to participate in external programmes.
to young Malaysians through career fairs and These programmes expose them to global
engagements with universities and student expertise and diverse perspectives that enrich
associations. These platforms offer insights into our organisational capabilities. Our initiatives
BNM’s role and the breadth of career pathways also support both the upskilling of existing staff
available, from economics, policy and research and the accelerated development of new hires
to technology, data science, cybersecurity and
communications. Our belief is that talent should
not merely be recruited, but inspired, nurtured
and empowered to grow within the organisation.
And for this, we emphasise on the skills and
values needed to thrive at BNM.
The KGP has become an important pipeline for
early career talent at BNM since its introduction
in 2021. Increasingly, the programme is
attracting bright young Malaysians who are
eager to work at BNM and contribute to nation
building. In 2025, demand soared, recording
a 55% increase in applications. Of this, we
recorded a 47% increase in applicants mainly
from the world’s top 100 universities compared
to 2024.
The KGP brings together diverse talents,
spanning economics, public policy, technology,
data science, education and even literature in
our most recent cohorts. This diversity enriches
our talent pool and reinforces our commitment
on interdisciplinary thinking. The KGP offers Learning sessions during Central Banking Business Acumen
three different tracks of structured program; Programme
Graduate Analyst, Supervision Graduate
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 110011


PEOPLE
with a total of 174 technical training sessions, Boosting Productivity
comprising of 785 learning hours conducted
Responsibly with Technology and
for the Economics, Investment, Supervision,
Regulation and Payment Services departments. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
BNM also recognises that on-the-job learning BNM continues to embrace technology and AI
and real-life experience are powerful drivers of as we head forward. Recognising the need for a
talent development. This underpins the Talent digitally proficient and future-ready workforce, we
Mobility Programme, a twelve-month cross- take a proactive, measured approach towards AI
department attachment for staff, that aims to adoption. This includes AI-powered productivity
broaden perspectives, promote working together tools developed in-house, such as KijangBot, a
and accelerate professional readiness. In general-purpose generative AI, and PolicyBot,
addition, in partnership with the Asia School of which supports enterprise knowledge on BNM
Business (ASB), BNM delivers the new Central policies and regulatory documents available on
Banking Business Acumen Programme for mid to BNM website.
senior level leaders. The programme is designed
to broaden staff exposure to central banking As BNM embraces digital tools including AI, it
perspectives and strengthens participants’
is vital to strengthen workforce cybersecurity
appreciation of policy interlinkages, helping them
awareness. We have conducted mandatory
make more informed decision across functions.
training, phishing simulations, and ongoing
Collectively, these initiatives form a cohesive
outreach, ensuring employees stay equipped
approach to developing a capable, adaptive
to counter evolving threats and protect BNM’s
workforce aligned with BNM’s long-term
assets and reputation.
strategic priorities.
Charting BNM’s Journey with Generative AI: From Early Adoption to
Future Transformation
Over the past two years, BNM has pursued a deliberate and measured approach towards Generative
AI adoption. We begin by initiating exploratory pilots, deploying two purpose-built bots (KijangBot
and PolicyBot), and putting in place the GenAI Governance Standard for responsible use. For now,
GenAI serves as a supportive partner that helps staff work smarter. By easing repetitive tasks and
helping to summarise and create content, GenAI supports learning, sharpens thinking and strengthens
decision making. Within controlled pilots and with appropriate safeguards in place, BNM aims to realise
efficiency gains while ensuring that the risks are carefully managed.
‑
Today, these tools can augment the way our people work. KijangBot helps to summarise documents,
perform translation and support content creation at scale. PolicyBot is used to locate the right
policies faster, allowing staff to focus their effort on applying judgement and making decisions with
the information. These pilots also provide insights on how we can redesign the way we work, simplify
processes and equip our staff with the right AI skills.
Focus will continue to be on how AI can be used as a tool across the organisation. Rather than adopting
AI for its own sake, the focus is to understand where it can genuinely add value. These could be in
supporting knowledge management and improving processes. Another area is on how AI can equip staff
to make better decisions by integrating it in policy design, decision support and operational workflows.
Central to realising this is capability development of staff. This covers areas such as developing AI literacy
and improving staff skills, which remain as key priorities so that our staff are well equipped to use GenAI
safely, effectively and in ways that support our mandate.
110022 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PEOPLE
Living Our Values: An Engaged This illustrated how feedback should be treated
across the organisation whereby we must reflect
and Healthy Workforce
on it, consider it, and communicate what we
did with it. Together, these initiatives encourage
Creating a workplace culture that helps our
experimentation, candour and collaboration. We
people to be at their best is key to support the
want BNM to be a place where people feel safe
effective delivery of BNM’s mandates. Building
and confident to share their views in shaping
on the momentum of translating awareness
better outcomes. By strengthening this culture of
into action, 2025 focused on strengthening how
empowerment and trust, we enhance our ability to
positive experiences can be cascaded across the
deliver effectively on our mandates.
organisation. We want to make sure our values
are reflected in everyday behaviours, forming a
People perform best when they feel supported
strong foundation for how we work.
in mind and body. Over the years, we have
placed strong focus on promoting wellbeing.
We recognise that meaningful change begins on
In 2025, we expanded access to wellbeing
the ground. We were encouraged to observe staff,
support, including professional counselling.
including leaders across departments, experimenting
We support this with awareness campaigns,
practical ways to strengthen everyday behaviours
training and practical workshops. We
and actions surrounding feedback. To broaden
introduced the Wellbeing Hub, a one stop
the reach and impact of such efforts, we created
platform that brings together mental health
safe spaces for them to share their ideas, sparking ‑
resources in a single, easy to access space,
creativity and collectively improving how we can
helping staff seek support early, confidently
work in BNM.
and on their own terms.
To further reinforce culture surrounding feedback,
Our wellness initiatives focus on meaningful
we introduced an in-house communications
experiences that support employees’ overall
series to show how we act on staff feedback.
wellbeing. These include the BNM Safety,
Top: A bowler in action during the thrills of Karnival Sukan BNM 2025.
Middle: Athletes powering through the 5,000 meters walk race during
Karnival Olahraga BNM 2025. Bottom: Runners taking off at the 5km
Health screening programme during BNM Safety, Health, Environment and 10km run during Larian BNM 2025
(SHE) and Wellness Week 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 110033


PEOPLE
Health, Environment (SHE) and Wellness build camaraderie outside of work. Larian
Week. Through targeted opportunities, staff BNM 2025, Karnival Sukan 2025 and Karnival
can take part in a variety of programmes Olahraga 2025 drew strong and widespread
and activities throughout the year, including participation, showing their value as accessible
access to health assessments and screenings, platforms for staff to show their sporting
influenza vaccinations, chiropractic sessions prowess while fostering team spirit across
and blood donations. Overall participation rate departments. These initiatives encouraged
more than doubled, showing strong demand healthier lifestyles and reinforced the need
and appreciation of the support offered by the for balance, reminding our people that strong
organisation. performance at work goes hand in hand with
caring for one’s physical wellbeing.
Beyond mental and emotional wellbeing, we
encourage staying active and healthy through
a range of physical activities and events that Driving Purpose Beyond BNM
At BNM, we believe our purpose goes beyond
our four walls. Purpose is also about creating
meaningful impact by giving back to the
community. Volunteering brings our people
together to make a real difference, whether it is
helping those in need, promoting social wellbeing
or contributing to environmental sustainability.
These efforts reflect our core values, strengthen
collaboration and build a shared sense of purpose
across the institution.
In 2025, BNM Volunteers (BNMV) continued to
carry out activities that drive positive change.
One key highlight was World AIDS Day, HIV
Awareness & Support which was done in
collaboration with Hospital Tengku Ampuan
Rahimah (HTAR) and Malaysian Society for HIV
Medicine (MASHM). This programme focused on
raising HIV/AIDS awareness for our staff and the
public. These efforts not only reduce stigma, but
also strengthen support for patients, especially
adolescents.
BNMV also played a key role in conserving
the environment. BNMV partnered with local
agencies and community groups and planted
1,000 Tangkol trees through the Riverbank Tree
Planting Program in Tuaran, Sabah to mitigate
floods, prevent erosion, stabilise soil and support
biodiversity. This initiative reflects our belief that
environmental care is a shared responsibility. Our
commitment to wildlife and conservation also
continues through the sponsorship of Barking
Deer, which is also known as BNM’s mascot at
Zoo Negara. The programme recorded positive
conservation results, including the birth of new
fawns, showing the success of the care and
support provided.
BNMV giving back to the community through meaningful volunteerism
activities
Top: Staff and community members participating in a World AIDS
Day awareness session. Middle: Volunteers planting trees along the
riverbank in Tuaran, Sabah. Bottom: One of the barking deers BNM
adopted at Zoo Negara
110044 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


PEOPLE
Recognition Malaysia’s 100 Leading Graduate Employers
2025 (GTi Media).
Our ongoing efforts to make BNM Malaysia’s
employer of choice are showing results and Going forward, BNM will continue building a
gaining recognition. In 2025, we received workforce that is agile, resilient, ready for the
several awards such as the Best Organisation future and driven by purpose. We are committed
& Most Preferred Employer 2025 (Life at Work to creating a workplace where people feel
Awards by TalentCorp, GRADUAN Brand supported, valued and empowered to grow. As
Awards, Graduates’ Choice Award 2026 by we respond to new challenges and opportunities
Talentbank), Best Young Graduates & Most in an increasingly digitally enabled economy, our
Preferred Graduates Programme 2025 (Life focus stays the same: to help every member of
at Work Awards by TalentCorp, GRADUAN our team thrive, so together, BNM can make a
Brand Awards). BNM is also listed among lasting impact on Malaysia’s future.
People Department team at Life at Work Awards 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 110055


Towards a Greener
Financial System
We remain committed in our climate Introduction
journey and that of the financial
In 2025, global political shifts and renewed
industry. Our approach focuses
debates on climate commitments created
uncertainty. At the same time, climate impacts
on strong governance, adaptive
became more visible domestically. Floods,
strategies, and practical measures. heatwaves and other extreme events damaged
homes and businesses, putting lives and
One key initiative is the Climate
livelihoods at risk. These events reminded us
to stay focused on building a climate-resilient
Finance Innovation Lab (CFIL) to
financial system.
fast-track climate and nature-positive
Our approach in 2025 centred on driving
projects in Malaysia. This and other
innovation and collaboration (Diagram 1). We
placed attention on transition and adaptation
efforts support a stable financial
solutions. We continued to build climate
system and enable a smooth and resilience across the financial system. During
Malaysia’s ASEAN Chairmanship, we also
credible transition for the economy.
provided platforms to develop avenues that
support funding of regional projects.
Diagram 1: BNM’s Climate Approach Over the Years
2018 2019 2020–21
Initiated BNM’s climate journey Inception of climate initiatives Developed building blocks for
via Value-Based Intermediation for the financial sector robust climate risk management
(VBI) for Islamic banks and catalysing climate finance
2025 2024 2022 –23
Supported climate projects Advanced real sector Integrated and scaled climate
and promoted collaboration transition and strengthened and sustainability initiatives in
for innovative financing national policy advocacy financial sector and own
models operations
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
110066 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
We also promoted financing models that Disclosure for Central Banks3 by the Network for
can speed up transition, including for the Greening the Financial System (NGFS) to ensure
ASEAN Power Grid (APG).1 These efforts credible and transparent disclosure.
reflect our commitment to shaping credible
climate strategies for Malaysia and the region Strengthening Our Climate
at large.
Governance and Driving BNM’s
As an organisation, we also ramped up Climate- and Environment-
efforts to green our operations. This included Related Strategies Forward
improving how we measure our emissions and
strengthening its disclosure. We are guided Climate considerations are well-integrated within
by the Recommendations of the Task Force BNM. Our governance structure ensures that we
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures stay ahead of climate- and environment-related
(TCFD)2 and the Guide on Climate-related risks4 (Diagram 2).
Diagram 2: BNM’s Climate Governance Structure
Board of Directors
Provides oversight and advice on
climate– and environment–related
strategies, risks, and initiatives
Bank-level Committee
Management Committees
Provides strategic guidance on key areas,
covering research and assessments, domestic
and regional partnerships
Strategy and Sustainability
Sustainability Department
• Drives, coordinates and monitors
organisational climate strategies and goals.
• Manages integrated reporting to management
and Board.
• Liaison point and supports climate advocacy
role.
• Provides technical support to line departments.
Operations and
Financial Digital and
Regulation Supervision Development Economics Centralised
Markets Technology
Shared Services
Supported by Capacity Building and Strategic Communication Initiatives
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
1 The ASEAN Power Grid (APG) is the shared vision of ASEAN 3 A guide that serves as a complement to the TCFD
Member States (AMS) for fully integrated grid operations recommendations, providing additional guidance for central
in Southeast Asia by 2045. The APG holds great promise banks that are taking their first steps in climate-related disclosure.
for promoting regional economic integration and growth, 4 More information on BNM’s climate governance structure and
enhancing energy security and accelerating clean energy the role of the Board and senior management can be found in the
transition. ‘Strengthening Our Climate Governance’ section in chapter on
2 A globally recognised framework to help public companies ʽTowards a Greener Financial Systemʼ of Bank Negara Malaysia’s
and other organisations more effectively disclose climate- Annual Report 2024.
related risks and opportunities through their existing reporting
processes.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 110077


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
In 2025, we made further progress on our climate- During Malaysia’s ASEAN Chairmanship, we
and environment-related initiatives across our supported the development of the ASEAN
core functions. Five strategic thrusts guided our Taxonomy for Sustainable Finance Version 4. As
work (Diagram 3). This is also aligned with BNM’s in the past, we led the work on setting thresholds
Business Plan and the Financial Sector Blueprint – this time for the manufacturing sector. The
2022–2026. taxonomy remains a key framework that provides
consistent definition and application of green
Our strategies cover macroeconomic policies, and transition finance across the region. We also
financial sector resilience, national transition, internal directed focus on improving access to finance
initiatives and thought leadership (Diagram 4). These to support a just and climate-resilient transition.
align closely with BNM’s mandates and national We secured strong interest to fund the ASEAN
climate and environmental plans. Internationally, Power Grid, including support from financial
BNM continued to advocate for global collective institutions, multilateral development banks,
action through the NGFS and other global platforms philanthropic capital providers and other partners.
(Diagram 5). Through these engagements, BNM We also expanded the Greening Value Chain
consistently highlights the unique transition (GVC)5 programme to ASEAN member states to
challenges faced by emerging economies. help SMEs in the region transition. Specifically,
This ensures greater inclusivity when global we partnered with the Asian Development Bank
commitments or best practices are discussed. and United Nations Development Programme
Diagram 3: Strategic Thrusts (ST) of BNM’s Climate and Environment-Related Strategies
Macroeconomic policies effectively integrate
ST 1
climate and sustainability considerations
• Understand and measure impact of climate change on
productivity, growth and price dynamics.
• Develop framework to incorporate climate consideration
into monetary policy.
Financial sector resilient to climate and
ST 2
environmental risks
• Ensure financial institutions manage own exposures to
physical and transition risks, and build resilience against EXPECTED OUTCOMES
business disruption or losses.
• Develop financial sector preparedness to deal with
climate-related events. A resilient and vibrant financial sector to
support an orderly and just transition to a
low carbon and climate resilient economy
Advance Malaysia’s transition towards net
ST 3 zero and adaptation efforts • Financial system is resilient against
climate and environment-related risk.
• Explore new green growth areas and green investments
for transition. • Financial system enables and facilitates
• Develop climate and sustainability-related financial real economy transition in an orderly and
solutions. just manner.
Climate and sustainability embedded in BNM • BNM leads by example through its own
ST 4 culture and operations sustainable operations.
• Manage BNM’s exposures to physical and transition risks.
• Bank-wide awareness, capacity and capability.
• Enhance BNM’s climate disclosures.
ST 5 Regional and international thought leader
• Contribute meaningfully to regional and global disclosure.
• Voice of Emerging Markets and Developing Economies.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
5 Supports SMEs in reducing their carbon footprint through
technical training, emission reporting tools and financing.
110088 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 4: Progress of Key Initiatives in 2025
STRATEGIC THRUST 1
Macroeconomic policies effectively integrate climate and sustainability considerations
Enhanced understanding of the impact of climate-related shocks and risks on the macroeconomy and
implications for monetary policy.
Continued strengthening of modelling capabilities to assess climate-related impacts on the macroeconomy.
STRATEGIC THRUST 2
Financial sector resilience to climate- and environment-related risks
Enhancing management of climate- and environment-related risks
• Analysed CRST1 submissions from Cohort 12 financial institutions and facilitated peer learning3 with Cohort 24.
Insights will inform capacity-building initiatives and guide refinements for future CRST exercises.
• Revised CRMSA5 on 17 March 2025, mandating all financial institutions to produce climate-related disclosures
aligned with the National Sustainability Reporting Framework (NSRF) in phases starting 2025, enhancing
transparency and comparability of disclosures.
Supporting understanding of nature-related risks
• Piloted the TNFD LEAP6 approach with three financial institutions and two corporates from the agriculture and construction sectors to
understand current state of nature-related risk assessments and disclosures in Malaysia. Further details in the section on Addressing
Nature-Related Financial Risks.
Development of Malaysia Taxonomy
• BNM and Securities Commission Malaysia (SC) are jointly developing the Malaysia Taxonomy to guide financial sector players in
mobilising climate and sustainable finance.
STRATEGIC THRUST 3
Advance Malaysia’s transition towards net zero and adaptation efforts
Advocacy and advisory on execution of national policies
• Conducted internal research on current challenges that affect effective implementation of adaptive policies.
• Advocated nature-based solutions to complement Government’s existing flood mitigation plans and strengthen community resilience
to floods.
Green finance and investment
• Facilitated financial flows towards green and climate-related initiatives, including support for small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) in their transition to sustainable practices.
• Hosted closed-door roundtable session between iron and steel industry players, financial sector and Ministry
representatives to discuss and enhance transition finance solutions for the industry.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 110099


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
STRATEGIC THRUST 4
Climate and susta inability embedded in BNM culture and operations
Reducing energy usage
Set indoor air-conditioning temperature at Lights off at 7:00 p.m. for main premises
24˚C–25˚C for main and selected premises. (manually switch on if needed).
Limit operational duration of 296 water dispensers
at main premises to 12 hours daily.
Greening our currency operations
Issued fit notes during festive seasons, supplemented by new Captured about 360 MWh energy generated from
notes when necessary (as much as 67% fit notes issued in 2025). waste-to-energy7 method for disposal of banknotes.
Successfully conducted proof of concept exercise for the recycling of polymer and paper banknotes.
Implemented incentive programme for coin processing to increase efficiencies in coin recirculation,
with an increase of 72% of coins recirculation compared to 2024.
Working to produce a product carbon footprint for the entire currency ecosystem to better understand
and manage currency emissions. Inputs received from currency suppliers, financial institutions and
registered currency processors.
Recycling of electronic waste
Recycled over 216.5 kg of electronic waste, 17.3% increase from 2024.
Factoring in sustainability in our investments
1 Portfolios are internally measured across ESG metrics (i.e. ESG and carbon emission scores).
2 Gradual increase in exposure to ESG-label instruments.
3 Keeping abreast with latest market landscape and actively engaging with NGFS and BIS.
Increasing internal technical expertise
• Continuation of climate as a learning topic in programme for new hires
(Taking Off Programme) and supervisors (Supervisory School).
• Continuation of Climate Change e-Module training for staff to better
understand climate risk.
Active internal communication on climate and sustainability
Brown bag session on Switching to Green:
The Journey of an Eco-friendly F&B Operator, to educate BNM F&B
vendors on eco-packaging
Forum posts and quizzes
111100 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
STRATEGIC THRUST 5
Regional and international thought leader
Plenary member in the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS)
• Continued to offer valuable insights into transition challenges faced by emerging economies to shape NGFS guidance to central banks.
Sustainability Director, Shasha Kartini Ridzam highlighted BNM’s
initiatives in assessing and managing nature-related financial risk
as a panellist at the ECB-NGFS Workshop: Vanishing Nature,
Rising Risk: A Central Banking and Supervisory Lens on
Ecosystem Degradation
Member of ASEAN Taxonomy Board
Published Version 4 of the ASEAN Taxonomy in November, which includes the complete Foundation
Framework and technical screening criteria for all six focus and three enabling sectors of the Plus
Standard.
ASEAN 2025 Chairmanship
Supported Malaysia’s ASEAN Chairmanship and Priority Economic Deliverables (PEDs) through initiatives to catalyse access to
finance for a just and climate-resilient transition.
• Garnered interest to participate in the ASEAN Power Grid Project (APG) given substantial investments needed to upgrade
and modernise the infrastructure. This was done through the organisation of two investor roundtables in Kuala Lumpur and
Hong Kong.
• Collaborated with multilateral stakeholders to advance the Greening Value Chain (GVC) programme within ASEAN and
published a playbook to assist in decarbonisation of small and medium enterprises.
• Conducted a series of technical workshops (in collaboration with Asian Development Bank and United Nations Development
Programme) as part of ASEAN regional roll-out of GVC pilot, commencing with Cambodia and Indonesia.
1 Climate Risk Stress Testing.
2 Cohort 1: Domestic banking groups, selected locally incorporated foreign banks, and insurers and takaful operators
(submission by 30 June 2025).
3 Further details on capacity building initiatives relating to CRST are in the chapter on ‘Promoting Financial Stability’ of Bank Negara Malaysia’s
Annual Report 2025.
4 Cohort 2: Other banks, development financial institutions, and insurers and takaful operators (submission by 31 December 2025).
5 Climate Risk Management and Scenario Analysis.
6 Locate, Evaluate, Assess and Prepare.
7 Waste-to-Energy (WTE) method converts solid waste into usable forms of energy, such as heat and electricity. Further details on sustainability
initiatives on currency are in the chapter on ‘Issuing Currency’ of Bank Negara Malaysia’s Annual Report 2025.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
in developing the playbook for ASEAN GVC.6 Enhancing our regulatory focus
The rollout of the GVC pilots in Cambodia and
Indonesia indicates growing interest in facilitating A strong regulatory foundation is critical for
SMEs in the region to stay competitive and build managing climate-related risks. In 2025, we
resilience within the global supply chain. enhanced supervisory expectations and
guidelines to strengthen how financial institutions
identify and manage climate risk. We continued
to improve the credibility and consistency of
6 Further details on Priority Economic Deliverables (PEDs) are in
financial institutions’ reporting under the Climate
the chapter on ʽInternational Engagementsʼ and the feature article
on ʽMalaysia’s 2025 ASEAN/ASEAN+3 Chairmanship: Advancing Change and Principle-based Taxonomy (CCPT).
Inclusive and Sustainable Economic Growth for ASEAN and
Supplementary documents for the CCPT issued
Malaysiaʼ of Bank Negara Malaysia’s Annual Report 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 111111


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
through the Joint Committee on Climate Change A credible plan is key to a smooth climate
(JC3) facilitated more effective assessments transition. We worked with financial institutions to
by financial institutions. We also simplified and better understand their challenges in developing
harmonised information submission to financial credible transition strategies. We held technical
institutions to ease the burden of customers. clinics that zoom in on various aspects of the
We ran the first industry-wide climate risk stress transition plan. These include implementation
testing exercise in 2025. To support this exercise, strategies, governance and engagement, and
we issued reporting templates to capture how metrics and science-based targets. These
financial institutions apply the Climate Risk clinics helped build the capacity of staff in
Stress Testing (CRST) Methodology Paper financial institutions who are responsible for their
released in 2024. institutions’ transition plans.
Diagram 5: Evolving Role of BNM in the NGFS and Other International Fora
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Plenary Member Steering Committee Member Plenary Member
Co-chair with Norges B ank for
Transition Impact Subgroup (under
Monetary Policy Working Group)
Co-chair with Deutsche Bundesbank for
Expert Network on Data
Co-chair with BIS for Task Force Co-Chair
on Capacity Building & Training
with World Bank
for Expert Network
on Capacity
Building
MEMBER IN OTHER INTERNATIONAL FORA
Note: Further details on role of BNM in international fora are in the chapter on ‘International Engagements’ of Bank Negara Malaysia’s
Annual Report 2025.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
111122 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Governor Rasheed encouraged the mobilisation of different pools of capital to fund climate projects through his keynote address at
the AVPN Global Conference 2025, Hong Kong
Enhancing awareness and understanding
Issues surrounding climate and sustainability
continue to evolve rapidly. This requires us
to engage widely to keep pace with what is
happening on the global and domestic fronts. This
included speaking to external experts who shared
practical industry insights. Within BNM, to keep
everyone abreast, we issued postings, conducted
brown-bag sessions and e-learning modules.
These efforts helped deepen understanding of
climate- and environment-related risks and BNM’s
role in managing them.
Advancing Climate Action in the
Financial Sector
The financial sector plays an important role in
Malaysia’s shift towards a greener economy.
Thus far, financial institutions have made inroads
Assistant Governor Madelena Mohamed emphasised the
in embedding climate considerations in risk
importance of robust climate protection solutions in her
management, business strategies, operations and
keynote address at the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries
(IFoA) Asia Conference 2025, Kuala Lumpur product development (Diagram 6). This shift has
been supported by practical tools and frameworks
that help financial institutions and their clients
manage the transition with more confidence.
These resources also catalysed change by
supporting businesses as they adapt and tap into
new opportunities for sustainable growth.
Greater consistency in reporting
Reporting standards under the Climate Change
and Principle-based Taxonomy (CCPT) have
strengthened across institutions. This improves
how financial institutions engage with and
Yuki Yasui, Managing Director of GFANZ Asia Pacific Network advise their clients. The quality of assessment
sharing insights on the inclusion of metrics and targets in
continues to improve. This is also supported
transition plan frameworks for financial institutions at the
by enhanced classifications introduced in 2024.
Transition Planning Clinic 4, Kuala Lumpur
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 111133


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 6: Progress Observed in the Financial Industry in 2025
Out of 66 Financial Groups
100% 98% 100%
2024: 66 2024: 63 2024: 62
2025: 66 2025: 65 2025: 66
Have a dedicated Reflected climate Developed
department or risk in Risk Appetite sustainability
cross-departmental setup Statement strategies and
for sustainability frameworks
95% 86%
2024: 55 2024: 52
2025: 63 2025: 57
Have set climate Offer green
targets products and
solutions
Note: 66 financial groups (seven groups comprising conventional and Islamic banks, four groups comprising conventional and Islamic
banks, insurers and takaful operators, 12 groups comprising insurance and takaful operators, one group comprising development
financial institutions, 42 standalone banks/development financial institutions/insurance and takaful operators).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
The new C5b category allows financial milestone. CFIL connects project developers with
institutions to better identify economic potential funders to turn ideas into viable projects.
activities that are neither climate-positive nor It focuses on creating practical and innovative
pose significant harm to the environment. financing solutions. Qualifying projects gain access
to funding, expert guidance, and a strong partner
In 2025, financial institutions also began to network to help them scale (Diagram 8).
implement the National Sustainability Reporting
Framework (NSRF). The NSRF builds on the
TCFD disclosure recommendations and is Managing Climate- and
aligned with the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure
Environment-Related Risk Across
Standards issued by the International
BNM’s Operations
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB). This
strengthens climate-related disclosures
across the financial sector. To further support While much of our work focuses on climate action
implementation by financial institutions, a across the financial sector, it is equally important
guidance document on NSRF is being developed that we manage the climate- and environment-
alongside planned training sessions. related risks within our own operations.
Climate- and environment-related risks can
JC3 as a platform for innovation and disrupt operations, damage assets and affect
collaboration employee safety. For a central bank, managing
these risks is critical to maintain operational
The JC3 continued to play an important role in continuity and uphold public trust. Our aim is
accelerating climate action within the financial to safeguard critical functions while reducing
sector (Diagram 7). The launch of the Climate our environmental footprint in a credible and
Finance Innovation Lab (CFIL) marked a key transparent manner.
111144 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 7: Progress and Deliverables of JC3 in 2025
Facilitating Financial Sector’s Readiness and Response to Climate Change
Increased data accessibility and availability through enhanced JC3 Climate Data Catalogue.
• Overall data availability increased to 82% in 2025, driven by new data items (primarily energy and GHG
emissions data), along with ancillary non-climate indicators such as socio‐economic data.
• 16% rise in data items (26 new items), bringing the total to 186 unique items with 386 granular data items
in 2025.
Scaling Up Finance for Climate Transition and Adaptation
Climate Finance Greening Value Greening Industrial
Innovation Lab Chain Parks
Launched in June 2025 to foster Published the Building Supply • Contributed to greater awareness among
public, private and philanthropic Chain Resilience: Insights into industry players on climate funding through
partnership to support marginally Greening Value Chains for ASEAN the Transitioning Industrial Clusters
bankable climate and nature-related Playbook. Playbook.
projects (Diagram 8). • Draws on the Malaysian • Advocated for sustainability consideration
• 30 projects onboarded with experience to offer insight within national policy in the finalisation of
funding needs exceeding into supporting businesses to the star rating system for industrial parks.
RM4.0 billion. accelerate decarbonisation • 11 companies at Kota Kinabalu Industrial
and enhance resilience of Park started measuring and reporting GHG
supply chains. emissions through PANTAS platform.
• Facilitated capital mobilisation to Dewan
Bandaraya Kota Kinabalu’s waste-to-energy
projects by onboarding in Climate Finance
Innovation Lab.
Building Capacity in Managing Climate Risk
Conducted specialised training programmes for financial institutions covering topics such as CCPT,
CRMSA, CRST, nature-related risk and transition planning (foundation to metrics and targets).
Engaging with Wider Industry
Closer collaboration with financial sector and international partners via engagements conducted.
• Organised knowledge sharing session by Bank of Philippine Islands to facilitate discussion among JC3
members on localising regional climate finance solutions.
Supporting SMEs’ Transition to Sustainable Practices
Increased outreach to SMEs via the inaugural JC3 SME Focus Group Climate Conference for SMEs.
• Hosted 415 participants from 310 companies across the SME ecosystem (entrepreneurs, financial
institutions, government agencies, solution providers).
• Featured panel sessions on climate risk, challenges and opportunities for rapid decarbonisation of SMEs,
with particular focus on energy efficiency and green certification.
• Motivated attendees to implement immediate sustainability initiatives within their respective organisations.
Note: More information on JC3 on the JC3 website (www.jc3malaysia.com).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Assistant Governor and co-chair of Joint Committee on
Climate Change Madelena Mohamed reinforced the pivotal
role that SMEs play in the national decarbonisation journey
in her keynote address at the JC3 SME Focus Group Climate
Conference for SMEs, Kuala Lumpur
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 111155


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 8: Climate Finance Innovation Lab (CFIL)
JC3 CLIMATE FINANCE INNOVATION LAB (CFIL)
 Collaborative platform to ideate, develop, and accelerate innovative climate finance solutions and mechanisms.
 Mobilises private and public finance to support Malaysia’s transition to net zero, to strengthen climate resilience and advance
nature-positive actions.
 Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB) was appointed as CFIL Administrator, with the JC3 providing strategic direction.
Key thematic focus areas
Energy transition Circular economy Sustainable Nature-based
and green and sustainable agriculture solutions and
innovation cities biodiversity
Capital Impact Accelerator Capital Demo Day
Connect Launchpad Solutioning
Networking series to Platform for project Programme for project A ‘lab’ designed to Showcase for
connect stakeholders owners to pitch ideas owners to build tools, co-develop innovative projects that
and explore and gain feedback or network and insights to funding structures for a have graduated
opportunities support from funders become investment-ready project from CFIL
ACHIEVEMENTS
Onboarded 30 projects with total funding needs exceeding RM4 billion
1st CFIL Capital Solutioning Lab attracted 71 participating institutions across
domestic and international funders
15 projects undergoing structured Accelerator programme co-developed by
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and BPMB
Project owners
Panel session featuring
pitching ideas to
speakers representing
funders during CFIL
diverse funding sources
Capital Solutioning
during CFIL Accelerator
Lab
programme
Note: More information on CFIL on the CFIL website (https://www.bpmb.com.my/mycfil/).
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Enhancing internal risk management Risk Appetite Statement to better reflect how we
assess and respond to climate- and environment-
The Board Risk Committee provides oversight on related risks across our assets and premises.
how we manage climate- and environment-related A clearer statement helps protect our buildings,
risks within our enterprise risk framework. This reduce operational disruptions and keep our
strengthens governance and accountability. employees safe.
In 2025, we strengthened our internal approach to We also began reviewing our business continuity
managing these risks. We updated the Enterprise management (BCM) plans to prepare for
111166 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
disruptions, such as floods, water shortages
Chart 1: BNM’s Gross Carbon Footprint for Physical
and fires. These actions reduce operational
Operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2), 2022 to 2025
vulnerabilities and protect critical financial
Annual GHG Emissions Trend 2022–25
infrastructure. They also allow us to set a strong
example for the industry on good climate-related 44,000
43,000 158 risk management. <0.1
4 4 1 2 , , 0 0 0 0 0 0 122 <0.1 163 <0.1
40,000
Improving emissions monitoring and 39,000 42,582 121 <0.1
management 38,000 41,346 41,145
37,000 38,776
36,000
We are committed to strengthen how we
35,000
manage emissions from our operations, 2022 2023 2024 2025
address data gaps and enhance emissions
Scope 2 - Purchased Electricity
reporting. With support from experts through
technical engagement, we now have a method Scope 1 - Food Composting
to measure, track and report emissions from
Scope 1 - Mobile Combustion
our physical operations and currency-related
Note: 1. BNM adopts an operational control-based approach to define
activities. This has improved the accuracy of our
the organisational boundary for its GHG emissions, aligned
emissions measurement and guided refinements with methodology described in GHG Protocol.
2. Our disclosed emissions data is limited to Scope 1 emissions
to our internal sustainability dashboard. It is
from mobile combustion and food composting, and Scope 2
also aligned with global standards under the emissions from purchased electricity (gross emissions
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and considers without offsetting), due to data availability. Scope 1 emissions
are calculated based on emission factors from Department for
various scenarios. Over time, we will expand Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 2024. Scope 2
these strategies to encapsulate other parts of our emissions are market-based and calculated based on location
specific emission factors.
operations. These will inform the development of
a credible transition plan for BNM. Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
The targeted carbon reduction initiatives and asset
rationalisation across our operations have begun
to yield outcomes (Chart 1). To manage Scope 2
(Locate, Evaluate, Assess, Prepare) approach for
emissions, we rolled out measures such as using
assessing nature risk. Two economic sectors with
electricity more efficiently, raising staff awareness
strong value chains are used in this pilot.
on sustainability, optimising building systems, and
investing in energy-saving technologies. We also
Three financial institutions and two corporates
continued our subscription to the Green Electricity
participated in the pilot, generating practical
Tariff for key premises, including Sasana Kijang, the
insights and recommendations to improve nature-
Automated Cash Centre, and BNM Headquarters.
related risk and opportunity assessments in
This helped us avoid the generation of fossil fuel
Malaysia. The full report will be published in 2026.
electricity by 21,848 tCO₂e (56% of total Scope 2
emissions) in 2025.
Going Forward
Addressing Nature-Related
Malaysia is strengthening its pathway to net
Financial Risks zero by 2050. Two key plans – the Long-Term
Low Emissions Development Strategy and the
Nature-related risks, like climate risks, can NDC Roadmap – set the direction for emissions
lead to financial and economic losses. They reductions and shifting to cleaner energy. New
can also worsen the effects of climate change. laws and policies, including the climate change
Building on our 2022 study with the World Bank legislation and the national carbon market policy,
on An Exploration of Nature-related Financial will create the frameworks needed for credible
Risks in Malaysia, we continued to deepen climate action and carbon trading systems.
our understanding of nature-related risks
and opportunities. In 2025, we advanced to For the financial sector, these developments
practical action. signal new opportunities and responsibilities.
BNM’s priorities for 2026 reflect this, with a focus
Working with the World Bank and UNDP BIOFIN, on nature, climate and institutional readiness
we piloted the use of Taskforce on Nature- to support a smooth transition for the whole
related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) LEAP economy (Diagram 9).
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 111177
e₂OCt
42,740
41,468 41,308
38,897


TOWARDS A GREENER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Diagram 9: BNM’s Key Focus Areas for 2026
ST1: Macroeconomic policies effectively integrate climate and sustainability considerations
• Develop framework for assessing the impact and transmission channels of climate change on growth and inflation.
• Publish nature-related risk disclosure guide, conduct climate-nature-economy nexus research.
ST2: Financial sector resilient to climate and environment-related risks
• Issue discussion paper on Malaysia Taxonomy for consultation.
• Assessment of CRST1 cohort 2.
• Develop expectations for financial institutions on transition planning based on feedback from engagements to ensure
credible transition plans by financial institutions.
• Provide steer to JC32 sub-committees to address industry challenges and support the green transition of the financial
industry.
ST3: Advance Malaysia’s transition towards net zero and adaptation efforts
• Long-term envisioning for climate and sustainability as part of Financial Sector Blueprint 2027-2030.
• Continue building capacity of financial institutions and niche expertise through JC3 initiatives.
• Support the Government’s climate and environment-related efforts.
ST4: Climate and sustainability embedded in BNM culture and operations
• Develop structural sectoral learning pathways for BNM.
• Develop targets and emission transition strategies for selected activities, and enhance disclosure.
• Comprehensive identification of BNM’s climate risk exposures and incorporation into risk management frameworks.
ST5: Regional and international thought leader
• Influence international policies (i.e. the ASEAN Taxonomy) with positive impact on promoting climate action, finance and
resilience, and sustainable growth.
• JC3 Journey to Zero Climate Conference.
• Support ASEAN Taxonomy implementation.
1 Climate Risk Stress Testing.
2 Joint Committee on Climate Change.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
111188 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


Risk Management and
Internal Controls
BNM applies its Enterprise Risk Management monitoring and managing risks. The framework
(ERM) Framework (Diagram 1) to provide a also fosters a strong risk culture and ensures
structured approach for identifying, assessing, consistent risk strategies across the organisation.
Diagram 1: Bank Negara Malaysia's Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Risk Oversight
Board of Directors
Board Risk Committee (BRC)
Risk Management Committee (RMC), Reserve Management Committee (ReMC)
1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence
Risk ownership Risk function Audit function
Risk Appetite
Risk Informed Decision Making Process
Step 3 Step 4
Step 1 Step 2 Risk
Prioritisation & Monitoring &
Risk Identification Risk Assessment Profile
Treatment Reporting
Key Risk Areas
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 111199
thgisrevO
&
ecnanrevoG
ssecorP
&
yciloP
slooT
srelbanE
Business Continuity Strategic and
Financial Risk Operational Risk
Management Reputational Risk
Risk arising from people,
Market risk, liquidity risk process, systems, external Risk arising from Risk of failing to achieve
and credit risk events, climate and business disruptions policy objectives and
environmental-related and system failures reputational damage
factors
Scenario Analysis Risk Control Self Assessment Business Impact Analysis
Stress Testing Incident Reporting Business Continuity Plan
Information Asset Profiling Crisis Management Plan
Risk Impact & Likelihood Parameters
Key Risk Indicators
Assessing and strengthening risk culture
Continuous training and awareness programmes
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia


RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Ensuring Robust and Effective effective implementation. To reinforce this role,
some business units have introduced a ‘1.5 line
Risk Oversight and Governance
of defence’ – where dedicated risk and control
functions are embedded within their operations.
Risk management is a collective responsibility
This structure strengthens risk awareness and
at BNM, with responsibilities shared across
proactive management at the operational level.
departments, independent risk and control
functions, as well as internal audit. With the The Risk Management Department (RMD)
support of the Board Risk Committee (BRC), serves as the second line of defence, providing
the Board of Directors oversees BNM’s risk independent assessments and monitoring of risks
management frameworks and practices, ensuring across the organisation. The RMD also supports
sound governance and effective risk oversight. management in maintaining oversight of overall
They are also responsible for setting the tone from risk trends and issues at the organisational level.
the top, setting the risk appetite, and reinforcing a Its direct reporting line to the BRC also enables
strong organisation-wide risk culture. independent judgement and timely escalation,
strengthening oversight and effective monitoring
At the management level, we exercise our risk of risk developments. Meanwhile, the Treasury
management responsibility through two key Risk Management Section, part of the Treasury
governance structures, the Risk Management Risk and Infrastructure Unit, looks at investment
Committee (RMC) and the Reserve Management risks for international reserves, reporting directly
Committee (ReMC). The RMC deliberates to a Deputy Governor. These structures enhance
enterprise risks and is supported by functional safeguards and promote sound risk practices
committees (Diagram 2), while the ReMC focuses throughout BNM.
on strategies and risks related to the management
of international reserves. Reporting directly to the Board Audit Committee
(BAC), the Internal Audit Department (IAD)
BNM adopts the ‘Three Lines of Defence’ model forms the third line of defence, providing
(Diagram 3). Business units act as our first line of independent assurance through comprehensive
defence. They are responsible for assessing risks, audits and reviews on the effectiveness of
setting appropriate controls and ensuring their controls and governance.
Diagram 2: Risk Management Governance Structure
Board of Directors
Board Risk Committee1
Risk Management Committee2 Reserve Management Committee2
• Responsible for the overall management of risks faced by BNM. • Responsible for investment strategies
• Ensures the strategic and critical risks are appropriately addressed. and risks in the management of
international reserves.(cid:141)
• Reviews risks emanating from global
financial markets and its implications
Operational Risk Financial Risk Management Crisis Management on international reserves.
Management Committee3 Committee3 Team3
• Provides oversight on the • Provides oversight on the • Provides oversight on
management of operational management of financial BNM’s business continuity
risks faced by BNM and risks faced by BNM and management.
ensures that the risks are ensures that the risks are • Ensures crisis preparedness.
adequately managed. adequately managed. • Coordinates BNM’s response
to operational disruptions.
1 Chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director of BNM.
2 Chaired by Governor.
3 Chaired by Deputy Governor.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
112200 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Diagram 3: Three Lines of Defence Model
Three Lines of Defence Model
GOVERNANCE
&
OVERSIGHT
Committees
BNM Board of Directors/
Board Risk Committee/
Board Audit Committee
1st Line of 2nd Line of 3rd Line of
Defence Defence Defence
Risk ownership Risk function Audit function
Business Units Risk Management Department Internal Audit Department
Treasury Risk Management Section
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Defining Clear Risk Boundaries the statements periodically so that it remains
relevant and practical in line with changes in the risk
for Stronger Governance
landscape. We conduct training and engagement
sessions regularly across all levels and functions
BNM’s enterprise risk appetite statements (Diagram to align operations with the defined risk appetites.
4) outlines the levels of risk BNM is prepared to We also have an Accountability Framework to
take in pursuit of its business objectives. We review deal with incidents of risk breaches, an important
Diagram 4: Bank Negara Malaysia’s Risk Appetite Statements
ENTERPRISE RISK APPETITE STATEMENT
BNM is committed to excellence in promoting monetary and financial system stability and fostering a sound and
progressive financial sector, to achieve sustained economic growth for the nation. In pursuing the mandates, BNM faces
risks arising from domestic and external environment, climate and environmental-related factors, crisis events,
proliferation of global digitalisation and more sophisticated cyber attacks. BNM also faces greater expectations from
stakeholders demanding higher standards of transparency and engagement.
Reputational Operational Financial
In fulfilling its mandates as BNM does not tolerate operational failures that can BNM’s financial risk exposure arises mainly
entrusted under the law, BNM is undermine the confidence in BNM’s ability in carrying from the holding and management of
committed to uphold its high out its functions or cause systemic disruptions in the international reserves. It manages these risks
standards of integrity, functioning of the financial system and markets for carefully and ensures financial sustainability,
accountability and which BNM is primarily responsible. BNM accepts but not at the expense of its mandate. BNM will
professionalism, and maintain some risks for non-critical business areas to ensure ensure prudent financial management and
public confidence and trust. efficiency and promote innovation within BNM. seeks to maintain strong financial buffers to
However, these risks will be managed prudently. respond to severe shocks.
These risks are managed through the effective implementation of internal frameworks, policies and processes, a sustained focus on a strong
risk culture and a competent and professional workforce.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 112211


RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
tool to promote compliance and strengthen to reflect significant changes in global financial
accountabilities at all levels. This year, we began to market conditions.
apply the Accountability Framework to better align
behaviours and actions with our internal recognition
Outcome-focused risk management
and rewards mechanisms.
Our risk approach is framed by the outcomes
Robust Policy Governance, we must safeguard – the continuous delivery of
critical services, the integrity and confidentiality
Resilience and Operational
of data and strong recovery capabilities. As
Continuity technology adoption accelerates and cyber
threats evolve, BNM enhances its frameworks
We adopt a multi-pronged approach to risk and methodologies to better assess and
management that is underpinned by the manage technology and cybersecurity risks. This
three lines of defence. This includes robust contributes to stronger protection of its digital
policy governance and prudent management assets against potential threats.
of international reserves. We complement
this with disciplined oversight of technology, The Digital Technology Committee (DTC) provides
cybersecurity and business continuity to oversight and strategic direction on technology and
support resilient operations. digital related matters. The Technology and Cyber
Security Working Group oversees technology and
cybersecurity risk management, sets priorities
Sound policymaking and governance for technology initiatives, and ensures IT service
efficiency. Independent validation through
BNM is committed to sound policymaking external assurance, red teaming and third-party
practices. The Policy Development Framework assessments provides objective insights on the
provides clear governance for the development, effectiveness of controls and helps uncover blind
review and approval of policies. As part of spots, enabling targeted and timely remediation.
its governance, all policies undergo rigorous
technical discussions before being deliberated
and approved by the Management Committee, Continuous compliance and
Financial Stability Committee, or Financial modernisation
Development Committee. Monetary policy
decisions are made by the Monetary Policy Compliance monitoring provides early warning of
Committee and supported by rigorous technical policy drift. It also helps to detect potential control
analysis and discussions. As part of its policy weaknesses. It is supported by periodic reporting
development process, BNM also conducts through interactive dashboards and automation.
external consultations for non-monetary policy At the same time, ongoing technology upgrades
areas to ensure the views and concerns of its and system modernisation deliver more secure
key stakeholders are duly considered. This and reliable platforms.
allows for more informed policy design and
practical application.
Embedding strategic risk assessment in
Operational matters are decided by the Operational planning
Management Committee that comprises both
internal members and external experts. As in previous years, we emphasise identifying
risks that can impact our strategic outcomes and
mandates. We do this by systematically embedding
Managing market, credit and liquidity risk considerations in our business plan, decision
risks and policy making and departmental actions. For
example, we review business plan ‘must wins’ to
On treasury-related financial risks, our role in surface emerging risks and re-prioritised initiatives,
managing Malaysia’s international reserves integrating actionable mitigation strategies aligned
exposes BNM to market, credit and liquidity to organisational priorities. This strengthens
risks. These risks are closely monitored and delivery of Business Plan outcomes by ensuring
managed against the investment benchmark and key initiatives remain achievable and on track
risk controls approved by the Board of Directors. despite emerging risks and changing conditions.
During the year, BNM revised its investment Careful monitoring of emerging risk events also
strategic asset allocation (SAA) for international enables us to flexibly manage ongoing initiatives
reserves. In line with industry best practices, and ensure that we stay on course to achieve our
the SAA is reviewed every three to five years strategic priorities.
112222 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Leveraging technology for better risk Critical market infrastructures
reporting
BNM’s Real-Time Electronic Transfer of Funds and
Standardised taxonomies improve data Securities System (RENTAS) and Fully Automated
quality, while interactive dashboards support System for Issuing/Tendering (FAST) systems are
faster decision-making. They support clearer critical financial market infrastructures that support
and consistent risk communication across Malaysia’s payment and settlement networks. The
BNM. This was made possible through Financial Market Infrastructure Committee (FMIC)
enhanced periodic risk reporting. We provides oversight and sets strategic direction for
achieved this by leveraging automation and these systems, including ongoing development
data visualisation techniques. For example, and upgrades. FMIC oversees the strategic
we use data visualisations such as trend governance over operational resilience and risk
charts, heatmaps and drill-down views management, ensuring these systems remain
(enabled by filters and summary indicators) safe, efficient and reliable. Amid rapid growth
allowing us to spot changes in patterns, risk of retail instant payments, we upgraded the
levels and key action areas. real-time gross settlement system to RENTAS+.
Building a stronger, more resilient organisation through a purposeful cyber readiness exercise
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 112233


RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
This upgrade enabled continuous interbank Risk governance and industry
fund transfers and retail payment settlements collaboration
24/7 throughout the year. This marked a major
milestone in BNM’s multi-year modernisation plan In our efforts to promote strong risk governance
of the RENTAS platform. and foster a resilient risk culture, we hosted a
series of engagements with external parties
across key focus areas, such as risk culture,
Strengthening operational continuity of
technology and cybersecurity. These included
critical functions
a Regional Risk Dialogue with central banks
to discuss emerging risks, Risk Networking
An enhanced ability to respond promptly
Group Roundtable to exchange views on current
and effectively during disruptions is critical.
issues, and RiskX Talk series featuring industry
In 2025, we conducted mid-day live run
experts on risk management and organisational
tests. We also carried out physical scenario
resilience. We also reviewed our Enterprise Risk
exercises to validate operational readiness.
Appetite Statements to give greater prominence
This includes mobilisation to the recovery
to climate and environmental risks for physical
centre and prolonged manual operations for
safety and security, as a start. This enables the
critical business functions. In addition, we
organisation to better anticipate, withstand and
strengthened emergency response and staff
respond to evolving environmental threats.
safety measures, introducing a rapid-response
communication tool to enhance coordination
during crises. These exercises confirmed the Internal Audit
effectiveness of key recovery procedures and
provided practical insights to further refine and
The BAC, supported by IAD, plays a central role
strengthen coordination during disruptions.
in overseeing the adequacy and effectiveness
of BNM’s internal controls and the integrity of
its financial reporting process. IAD’s functional
Cyber incident preparedness and
and direct reporting to the BAC preserves its
resilience
independence and objectivity. This ensures
that audit priorities and findings are overseen
In 2025, BNM ran a cybersecurity drill simulating
at the highest level of governance at BNM. This
real-world threats to test our risk management,
reporting line enables the BAC to obtain objective,
internal controls and crisis protocols. This
independent assessments on the effectiveness
allowed us to affirm our ability to respond to
of governance arrangements, risk management
threats in a coordinated and effective manner.
practices and internal control systems. IAD also
provides assurance to the Minister of Finance on
Building shared responsibilities a quarterly basis, that the international reserves
are managed in line with policies and guidelines
As we accelerate the use of AI and digital approved by the Board of Directors.
tools, we accord high priority to strengthening
security awareness. This is crucial to safeguard BNM adopts a risk-based approach in
BNM’s data and assets. In 2025, we rolled out determining audit priorities and engagements.
mandatory bank-wide cybersecurity training, This allows focus on areas of higher significance
covering emerging threats such as AI-enabled to BNM’s mandates and reputation (Diagram
attacks and deepfakes. This helped build 5). Close engagements with the BAC, Senior
stronger security resilience in an AI era. We also Management, RMD and line departments helped
carried out periodic phishing simulation exercises refine these priorities. In 2025, we audited 33
to help employees recognise suspicious emails departments and affiliates. Audit findings are
in a safe, controlled environment. Insights from accompanied by constructive and practical
these exercises are used to develop targeted recommendations aimed at strengthening
training for higher-risk groups and further controls, improving efficiency and enhancing
strengthen internal controls. Furthermore, governance practices. IAD also monitors the
we expanded organisation-wide awareness implementation of agreed management actions
outreach. We take this opportunity to share and provides regular updates to the BAC
monthly security advisories and campaigns on pertinent control enhancements, thereby
as well as engage with business units. This reinforcing accountability and continuous
is intended to keep employees informed on improvements across BNM.
emerging threats and real-world attack trends.
It also reinforces best practices to protect our In enhancing audit efficiency, IAD continues to
assets, stakeholders and reputation. modernise its audit processes through technology
112244 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
and innovation. Increasingly, we adopt data will continue to engage with our counterparts
analytics and GenAI tools such as Optical via the ASEAN Central Banks’ Heads of Internal
Character Recognition and Natural Language Audit Network Meeting, Regulators Internal Audit
Processing to enable comprehensive assessments Roundtable meeting and global professional
of emerging risks and control effectiveness. These networks, to support ongoing progress towards a
capabilities enhance audit coverage and support future-ready audit function.
timely and insightful assurance. In 2025, we
also began to introduce elements of continuous In a rapidly changing environment, it is also
auditing in selected areas to strengthen overall risk crucial that IAD remain focused on delivering
management and control environment. independent and practical assurance to support
sound decision-making. By strengthening core
Moving forward, IAD is committed to expanding audit practices, progressive development of staff
AI-driven and data-centric audit approaches to capabilities and adoption of advanced technology,
stay aligned with enterprise needs and industry IAD is able to deliver actionable insights and
benchmarks. Knowledge sharing and exposure ensure internal controls are adaptive and resilient
to international best practices will be key. We in navigating a dynamic risk landscape.
Diagram 5: Coverage of Audits Conducted in 2025
Technology and
Policy
Cybersecurity
Development and
Surveillance
Financial Financial
Development Advisory and
and Inclusion Surveillance
Risk Currency
Management Operations
Audit
Coverage
Human Capital Investment
Management Operations
Compliance
with Legal and
Stakeholder
Regulatory
Management
Requirements
Affiliate/
Related Entities
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 112255


Engaging Malaysians
As the country’s central bank, our Making monetary policy and the economy
understandable
policies and actions affect millions
of Malaysians and businesses.
Our aim is to keep stakeholders
informed of our work and mission.
Ultimately, our goal is clear – to
make effective policy decisions
and to help Malaysians better
understand our actions and the
reasons behind them.
Building on 2024, we stepped up efforts to
widen the reach and deepen the impact of our
engagements and communications. From West
to East Malaysia, we met and reached out to
Malaysians, businesses and organisations.
We engaged on national priorities, such as
structural reforms to foster economic growth
and advance healthcare, Malaysia’s ASEAN
Chairmanship as well as day-to-day issues
affecting ordinary Malaysians such as financial
management and scams.
Enhancing Transparency and
Deepening Engagement
The public is a key constituent for BNM. We
aim to respond to the needs of the public for
information and advice to help them better
understand economic and financial matters.
At the same time, they are an important
source of input to our economic and financial
assessments and policymaking.
In 2025, BNM continued efforts to build trust
through clear and timely communication.
The Governor conducted regular interviews with
the media to explain decisions of the Monetary
Policy Committee and economic developments in
a more relatable way.
126 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
Partnering with the media Engaging stakeholders, deepening
dialogue
The media plays an important role in keeping the We recognise that effective policymaking
public informed on our work. In 2025, we conducted is shaped through meaningful dialogue.
technical workshops to deepen the media’s We engaged a wide range of stakeholders
understanding on issues such as the Malaysian including parliamentarians, economists and
economy and finance, as well as our policy reforms financial analysts to exchange perspectives on
and initiatives to protect financial consumers. topics relating to the economy and financial
Through such forums alongside closed-door stability. This constructive dialogue allows
engagements with senior management of BNM, the us to explain our work and thinking on many
media had the opportunity to gain deeper insights areas and invites stakeholders to share with us
to our policy thinking and actions. their perspectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 127


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
Going social and digital
On social media, we shared insights on current such as financial scams. We also established
topics and policies. We also continued to raise our presence on TikTok to expand our reach on
public awareness and understanding of issues social media.
Enhancing Public Awareness of Financial Scams
In 2025, we conducted various efforts to raise public awareness of financial scams across a variety of
channels and platforms.
128 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
From reports to real conversations
Sasana Symposium returned in 2025 with sparked meaningful conversations on issues
the theme ‘Structural Reforms: Building a surrounding digital assets, inflation, cost
Resilient Malaysia’. The event spotlighted of living, social safety nets, healthcare
the importance of structural reforms in reforms and climate finance. The digital asset
strengthening Malaysia’s resilience and ability innovation hub and RESET initiative were also
to navigate uncertainties. The symposium announced during the symposium.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 129


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
Advocating policy and seeking feedback financial sector so that it can better serve the
Malaysian economy and public.
We consult widely with the public and the
industry on key policies and initiatives. In 2025,
Protecting consumers and amplifying
we published 15 exposure drafts, discussion
papers and research papers to seek feedback compliance culture
and foster discussion in a broad range of areas
which include artificial intelligence, open finance We started regularly publishing enforcement
and asset tokenisation. A paper exploring Shariah actions on our website and social media.
perspectives on modern money and central bank Through greater transparency and disclosure,
digital currencies was also published. These we seek to reinforce the deterrent principle of
efforts reflect BNM’s commitment to develop enforcement actions and promote confidence in
and advocate for policies to further develop the the financial system.
130 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
Advancing Financial Literacy Nationwide
We continue to promote access to financial services and financial literacy. This is to help Malaysians better
manage their finances and build lasting financial resilience. With greater financial capability, Malaysians will
also be better able to protect themselves against risks, such as financial scams and over-indebtedness. In
turn, this supports our mandate for a resilient and inclusive financial system for the nation.
In 2025, we held two Karnival Celik Kewangan (KCK), one each in Tawau and Pulau Pinang. These
carnivals bring financial education directly to the community through interactive exhibitions, educational
talks, workshops and family friendly activities (Diagram 1). Through these activities, visitors gained
practical knowledge on topics such as personal finances, digital payments and financial scams.
Diagram 1: Karnival Celik Kewangan
KCK Tawau KCK Pulau Pinang
5–6 July 2025 14–16 November 2025
12,000 visitors 27,200 visitors
944,000 reach online 1.9 million reach online
20 interactive educational activities 26 interactive educational activities
3.2 million reach on #24jambijakwang 16,000 users on the Interactive
financial education livestream* Anti-Scam Portal
576 financial transactions** 3,007 financial transactions**
RM2.5 million RM29.8 million
* Led by mySalam and the Financial Education Network (FEN), supported by TikTok Malaysia and the Malaysian Takaful Association (MTA).
** Total amount of deposits collected, financing approved and insurance/takaful policy sold by financial service providers onsite in their
transactions with the public.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 131


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
At KCK Pulau Pinang, we launched Just-in-Time Financial Education (JITFE) in collaboration with
participating banks to embed financial education targeted on personal financing. Customers of
participating banks will receive practical advice during the borrowing process, helping them understand
financing terms, costs and risks before committing to personal financing.
Financial Literacy Month 2025: A Whole-of-Nation Effort
The Financial Education Network (FEN)1 organised the Financial Literacy Month (FLM) 2025 in October.
Launched by YAB Prime Minister, FLM empowers Malaysians with essential knowledge and skills to
navigate rising costs of living and adapt to an increasingly digital world. The FLM Nationwide Roadshow
by the Financial Literacy Squad visited 125 locations, engaging 26,000 Malaysians.
Surveys conducted at the roadshow also showed that participants are more aware of financial scams.
They learned about good digital financial habits, such as making safer online transactions and using
stronger passwords.
Diagram 2: Share of Correct Answers in the Digital Financial Literacy Survey*
Do not share passwords with close friends
96% Aware of mule accounts modus operandi 89%
and family members
67% A ba g n re k e in t g h a is t u u n s s in a g fe public Wi-Fi for online 84% C on h l e in c e k security features before transacting
* 1,669 survey samples throughout FLM SCK Roadshow.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
1 FEN is co-chaired by Bank Negara Malaysia and the Securities Commission Malaysia. Other members are the Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Higher Education, Employees Provident Fund, Perbadanan Insurans Deposit Malaysia, Permodalan Nasional Berhad, and the Credit Counsel-
ling and Debt Management Agency (AKPK).
132 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
In conjunction with FLM, the National Strategy for Financial Literacy 2026−30 was also launched. It marks
Malaysia’s renewed national commitment to strengthening financial literacy through an inclusive and
digital whole-of-nation effort.
Strengthening Regional Outreach Tenang Voucher 3.0, helping eligible recipients
use the RM30 voucher to obtain microinsurance
BNM operates regional offices around the or microtakaful protection.
country which serve as our ‘eyes and ears’ to get
insights that feed into our policymaking. They Our regional offices also worked with local
help us get a better, on the ground, feel and pulse partners to accelerate the iTEKAD initiative.
as to what is going on with local businesses and These include state economic planning units,
communities. These offices also conduct policy state Islamic religious councils, regional
surveillance, advocacy and outreach. economic corridors, business chambers,
and state agencies. Together, we connected
In 2025, we opened our sixth regional office them with iTEKAD participating financial
in Kuala Lumpur. This office covers Selangor, institutions and implementation partners.
Negeri Sembilan, Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya. The goal is to help low-income micro-
This sixth office expands our nationwide network entrepreneurs earn a steady income and
– comprising Pulau Pinang, Kuala Terengganu, improve their living standards.
Johor Bahru, Kuching and Kota Kinabalu.
Direct engagement with regional stakeholders
Beyond that, we also work closely with state helps us design policies that reflect Malaysia’s
agencies and regional partners to advance efforts diverse needs and local realities. Through
in the area of financial development and inclusion. targeted outreach, regional offices help us
For example, in 2025, we worked with local advance the development and inclusion
partners to expand take-up of the Perlindungan agenda to all Malaysians.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 133


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
Converging Arts, Culture and Finance
BNM MAG is our museum and art gallery, where we educate the public through art, culture and
finance. Through exhibitions and education activities, BNM MAG not only encourages an appreciation
for numismatic and art heritage, but also promotes public awareness and understanding on BNM’s role
in the economy and financial sector.
BNM MAG is a platform for us to deliver engaging learning experiences and deepen community
connections. In 2025, we welcomed 391,327 visitors, with a record 6,598 visitors passing through our
doors on our busiest day.
ASEAN Exhibitions: Numismatic Marvels and Palette & Pen
In 2025, BNM MAG worked with ten central banks to organise two exhibitions:
 Numismatic Marvels showcased stories of 20 ancient southeast Asian kingdoms alongside an
ASEAN Marketplace model; and
 Palette & Pen explored the interplay of art and literature through over 150 works from Malaysia and
ASEAN.
‘Exploring ASEAN’ Through Play at Children’s Festival @ MAG 2025
Tailored for those aged seven to 17, programmes at the festival focused on money matters, heritage
and cultural awareness, and innovation and sustainability. This event was inspired by Malaysia’s ASEAN
Chairmanship and our commitment to create meaningful experiences for children.
134 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


ENGAGING MALAYSIANS
Medical Health Insurance/Takaful (MHIT): Whole-of-Nation Approach
During the year, we worked closely with key stakeholders on RESET, a series of reforms to address
the challenge of medical inflation (refer to the chapter ‘Promoting a Progressive and Inclusive Financial
System’ for further information).
At Sasana Symposium in June 2025, the Prime Minister unveiled RESET, as well as the formation of the
Joint Ministerial Committee on Private Healthcare Costs (JBMKKS).
The JBMKKS, co-chaired by the Minister of Finance II and the Minister of Health, is tasked to lead a
national effort to design and implement measures that support value-based healthcare. This is a model
that shifts its focus from ‘services provided’ to ‘patient outcomes’ for effective and affordable care,
delivering high-quality, patient-centred results.
We worked with many stakeholders to shape these reforms. They include doctors, private hospitals,
policymakers, consumer groups, and insurance and takaful agents. These discussions gave us important
input and feedback that guided the design of these reforms, including the base MHIT plan. The base MHIT
plan is a healthcare plan aimed at being more affordable and sustainable for Malaysians.
Looking Ahead public understanding of matters relating to the
economy and finance, we seek to strengthen
In 2026, we will continue to engage Malaysians. transparency, foster meaningful dialogue, and
Whether it is to explain our work, to shape better make our communications more accessible
policies that meet real needs or to help improve and relatable.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 135


International Engagements
In 2025, amid shifts in geopolitics,
intelligence, as well as climate-related risks. We
also discussed initiatives to further enhance the
trade dynamics and global financial
effectiveness of EMEAP.
conditions, we stepped up our
international collaboration. By working
more closely with our partners,
we built shared understanding,
advanced solutions and strengthened
resilience to help the country navigate
an increasingly complex global
environment.
Enhancing Partnerships amid
Geopolitical Shifts
2025 was a significant year for Malaysia and BNM
as Malaysia assumed the ASEAN and ASEAN+3
Chairmanship. BNM continued to engage actively
in international discussions on issues affecting
Malaysia and the global economy.
As ASEAN Chair, BNM together with the Ministry
of Finance, led key meetings and initiatives under
the ASEAN Finance Track. These focused mainly
on strengthening regional financial integration Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour at the Governor Talks session
‘The Future Ahead: Malaysia and ASEAN in a Changing Landscape’
and stability. Meanwhile, under the ASEAN+3
during the International Monetary Fund (IMF)–World Bank Group
Finance Process, Malaysia worked alongside (WBG) Spring Meetings on 23 April 2025 in Washington, D.C.
China as co-chairs to strengthen financial safety Source: IMF Photo/Alyssa Schukar
nets. Key milestones achieved during the ASEAN
and ASEAN+3 Chairmanship are elaborated in the
feature article ‘Malaysia’s 2025 ASEAN/ASEAN+3
Chairmanship: Advancing Inclusive and Sustainable
Economic Growth for ASEAN and Malaysia’.1
Through the Executives’ Meeting of East Asia-
Pacific Central Banks (EMEAP), BNM worked
closely with members to identify key policy
challenges and policy responses over the
medium term. These included areas such as
the implications of digitalisation and artificial
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour with Malaysia’s Minister of Finance II,
Yang Berhormat Senator Datuk Seri Amir Hamzah Azizan at the
1 The Finance Track advances regional financial integration across
IMF–ASEAN Roundtable during the IMF–WBG Spring Meetings
areas, including payments, local currency use, capital markets,
sustainability, taxation and treasury functions. Source: IMF Photo
113366 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour and his counterparts at the 30th BNM senior management with their counterparts of the Bangko Sentral
EMEAP Governors’ Meeting and 14th Informal Meeting of EMEAP ng Pilipinas during a bilateral meeting on 5 December 2025 in Langkawi,
Governors and Heads of Supervisory Authorities on 20-22 July 2025 in Malaysia
Bangkok, Thailand
We participated actively in key international Driving Connectivity, Resiliency
standard-setting and policy platforms, including
and Inclusivity Across Borders
the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS),
In the area of connectivity, BNM worked closely
Financial Stability Board (FSB), International
with regional and global partners to transform
Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) and
cross-border payments, helping make seamless
the Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB) –
transactions a reality.2
amplifying Malaysia’s voice in shaping global
regulatory developments. These platforms enable
us to align our policies with evolving international BNM is actively involved in Project Nexus – a
standards. Additionally, these platforms support multilateral initiative to build a scalable and
collective efforts that strengthen the resilience and interoperable infrastructure for seamless cross-
competitiveness of our financial system. border payments. The project aims to make
cross-border payments as seamless and efficient
as domestic ones. Progress is well underway, with
In parallel, we continued to strengthen bilateral
the system expected to go live in 2027.
engagements with peers and partners. These
bilateral engagements are integral for several
We are an active contributor to the Alliance for
reasons. First, they enable us to exchange views
Financial Inclusion (AFI), a network we have
on challenges and emerging policy issues in the
been part of since 2009 and has hosted its
wider economy and financial sector. Secondly,
headquarters in Kuala Lumpur since 2015.
they create opportunities to explore solutions to
BNM chairs AFI’s Global Standards and
enhance financial and economic resilience. Lastly,
Policy Committee and contribute knowledge,
these engagements deepen our relationships with
experience, and policy insights across multiple
key stakeholders – making Malaysia a credible,
working groups. These include leading policy
trusted and well-connected partner in the global
discussions across areas such as open finance,
financial community.
MSME digitalisation, financial capability, and
national strategy development. We also actively
facilitate knowledge exchange on a wider range
of financial inclusion topics, including hosting
in-person study visits by member countries. In
2025, BNM received AFI’s inaugural Honorary
Recognition Award. The award recognises our
long-standing leadership and support for AFI’s
institutional development.
BNM also worked closely with the World
Bank Group, the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) and
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour with IMF Managing Director
Kristalina Georgieva during a bilateral meeting on 27 October 2025 in 2 Further details on these initiatives can be found in the chapter
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia ‘Promoting Safe and Efficient Payment and Remittance Services’ and
the feature article ‘Malaysia’s 2025 ASEAN/ASEAN+3 Chairmanship:
Advancing Inclusive and Sustainable Economic Growth for ASEAN
and Malaysia’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 113377


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
the ASEAN Working Committee on Financial CPF) standards. These evaluations reinforce our
Inclusion (WC–FINC) to deepen evidence- commitment to a safer, more transparent financial
based policymaking in financial inclusion. system, and safeguard the integrity of the global
These collaborations provided access to financial ecosystem.
shared knowledge, best practices and emerging
international standards. Together, they help
build BNM’s institutional capacity and ensure Elevating Malaysia’s Global
Malaysia stays aligned with regional and
Leadership in Islamic Finance
global developments.
Malaysia continued to hold a leading position
in Islamic finance. The country shapes global
standards and drives thought leadership that
enhance the resilience, integrity and international
credibility of the Islamic finance ecosystem.
As Chair of the Executive Committee of
IFSB, BNM led efforts to further strengthen
IFSB’s institutional foundation. The Executive
Committee is a key component of the IFSB
governance structure that provides advisory
to the IFSB Council on strategic matters. The
Committee also makes decisions on operational
Assistant Governor Suhaimi Ali at the AFI Global Policy Forum on 2-5 matters. At the standard-setting and technical
September 2025 in Swakopmund, Namibia level, we play an active role in developing
prudential standards, providing technical
assistance and capacity-building to other
Continued Commitment to jurisdictions, and reinforcing sound governance
and institutional effectiveness of IFSB.
Prevent Financial Crimes
At BNM, we are committed to supporting global We played our role as a member of the
efforts to protect the integrity of the financial International Islamic Liquidity Management
system.3 We are an active member of the Financial Corporation (IILM) by providing strategic advice
Action Task Force (FATF) and the Asia/Pacific and support to strengthen its governance
Group on Money Laundering (APG). We do so framework and internal controls. Our support
by helping to shape global standards to combat
financial crimes – contributing to updates to FATF
standards, reports on proliferation financing and
sanctions evasion, and guidance on financial
inclusion and de-risking.
In preparing Malaysia for the FATF’s Mutual
Evaluation Exercise,4 we actively engaged with
key stakeholders, including relevant domestic
agencies, several FATF member countries, as
well as the FATF and APG Secretariat. These
engagements were essential to ensure our
readiness for the evaluations. As part of our FATF
obligation, we also contributed to peer evaluations
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour chairing the 14th IFSB Executive
of other member countries’ measures, helping to Committee Meeting on 17 November 2025 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
strengthen global implementation of anti-money
laundering, countering financing of terrorism and
countering proliferation financing (AML/CFT/
3 Further details on BNM’s efforts in 2025 can be found in the chapter
‘Maintaining Financial Integrity’ in BNM’s Annual Report 2025.
4 The Mutual Evaluation (ME) is a peer review assessment which
analyses a country’s level of compliance with international
standards and the level of effectiveness of its AML/CFT/CPF
system. Further details on the ME of Malaysia can be found here:
(https://www.fatf-gafi.org/en/publications/Mutualevaluations/mer-
malaysia-2025.html).
113388 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
includes steering best-practice frameworks, new partnerships, deeper knowledge exchange
guiding decision-making and facilitating the and greater investment opportunities that drive
IILM’s business transformation phase. This responsible growth and real-world impact.
helped IILM become among the top three
Sukuk issuers globally in 2025, contributing to
enhanced global Islamic liquidity for Islamic Expanding Trade and Investment
banks and financial institutions.
Potential
As the lead negotiator for financial services, BNM
Advancing Sustainable Finance
continued to work to improve market access and
through Collaboration negotiating strategic provisions to position Malaysia’s
financial sector as a competitive global player –
BNM continued to contribute to regional and driving investment, fostering innovation, and fuelling
global efforts in advancing a more climate- sustainable economic growth.
resilient financial system.5 We actively
participate and contribute to key international In 2025, we played a role in the conclusion of
bodies such as the ASEAN Taxonomy Board two major trade agreements. First, the Malaysia−
(ATB) and the Network for Greening the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) Economic
Financial System (NGFS). Partnership Agreement (MEEPA) – Malaysia’s first
trade pact with several European countries.7 Our
As a member of the ATB, BNM contributed involvement secured new markets for Malaysian
to the development of the ASEAN Taxonomy financial institutions to provide services in EFTA
Version 4 (Taxonomy). In 2025, we led the countries, including for cross-border insurance. The
work on developing the Technical Screening second agreement is the Malaysia−Korea Free Trade
Criteria (TSC) for the manufacturing sector. Agreement (MKFTA). It strengthens collaboration with
Additionally, we were also involved in Korea as a key economic partner in the region. It also
developing the TSC for the remaining sectors6 creates potential for Malaysian businesses to explore
under the Plus Standard. The updated future economic opportunities in strategic areas such
Taxonomy offers comprehensive guidance as digital economy and green economy.
on identifying and classifying sustainable
projects and economic activities in the region. These achievements set the stage for deeper
The goal is to help investors and companies integration and future opportunities. They also
make informed investment decisions on ensure our financial sector remains agile and
environmentally sustainable investments. competitive, making Malaysia an attractive trade
and investment destination.
At the side event of the Ethical Global
Finance Summit 2025 in Edinburgh, United
Kingdom, in collaboration with Sustainable Going Forward
Development Goals Hive-Ethical Finance
Global, we showcased how integrating As global dynamics continue to shift, our international
Islamic finance principles with sustainability engagements remain anchored in a clear purpose.
can deliver tangible development outcomes. In 2025, we continued to safeguard stability while
By sharing our approach with the global unlocking new opportunities for the nation and the
audience, we positioned Islamic finance as a region. Nevertheless, each partnership is part of a
practical solution supporting long-term global larger story. It is one of resilience, collaboration and
sustainability priorities. The strong interest shared progress. Moving forward, BNM will continue
from international audiences and investors to be proactive and work closely with our partners.
signals growing momentum to collaborate with This would further enable us to ensure the financial
Malaysian stakeholders. This paves the way for system remains robust, responsive and future-ready.
5 Further details on BNM’s efforts can be found in the chapter 7 Members of EFTA are Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and
‘Towards a Greener Financial System’ in BNM’s Annual Report Switzerland.
2025.
6 The remaining sectors are (i) Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
and (ii) Water Supply, Sewerage, Waste Management and
Remediation Activities. The updated Taxonomy also includes
inclusion of enabling sectors (i) Information & Communication;
and (ii) Professional, Scientific & Technical Activities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 113399


Malaysia’s 2025 ASEAN/ASEAN+3 Chairmanship:
Advancing Inclusive and Sustainable Economic
Growth for ASEAN and Malaysia
ASEAN and ASEAN+3 serve as key regional platforms for cooperation, enabling countries to work
together to foster shared economic prosperity and enhance collective resilience against external shocks.
For Malaysia and for Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), these platforms are important in strengthening
economic and financial ties with our regional partners.
ASEAN Chairmanship rotates annually among the 11 ASEAN Member States (AMS). As Chair, a country
sets the region’s priorities for the year – setting the agenda, convening and chairing ASEAN meetings,
and driving cooperation initiatives across the ASEAN tracks and pillars.
Malaysia’s ASEAN and ASEAN+3 Chairmanship (Diagram 1) coincided with a period of heightened global
fragmentation. In an environment marked by rising trade tensions and geopolitical uncertainty, the task
of reinforcing regional economic and financial integration, trade facilitation, and investment cooperation
becomes important. Against this backdrop, BNM worked closely with the Ministry of Finance to advance
practical initiatives under the ASEAN Finance Track.1 Our aim was to bring tangible benefits to households
and businesses in Malaysia and across the region.
For its ASEAN Chairmanship, Malaysia chose the theme ‘Inclusivity and Sustainability’. This theme
reflects the country’s commitment to narrow development gaps, improve living standards and mitigate
climate-related risks in an increasingly fragmented and uncertain global environment. Drawing from this
theme, BNM’s efforts focused on advancing sustainable finance, strengthening payment connectivity
across ASEAN, and enhancing the regional financial safety net. Additionally, Malaysia’s Chairmanship
sought to strengthen the ASEAN platform by fostering deeper policy dialogues aimed at driving tangible,
impactful outcomes for the region.
1 The ASEAN Finance Track actively pursues cooperation in various areas covering efforts to enhance financial integration and resilience, further
develop capital markets, and advance cooperation in taxation and treasury functions.
114400 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Diagram 1: ASEAN Chairmanship and BNM’s Involvement
ASEAN Chairmanship Rotation
The Chairmanship of ASEAN rotates annually based on the alphabetical order among the Member States.1
Prior to 2025, Malaysia last chaired ASEAN in 2015.
Indonesia 2023 Lao 2024 Malaysia 2025 Philippines 2026
Malaysia’s Chairmanship theme ‘Inclusivity
and Sustainability’ reflects aspiration f or
truly shared progress, ensuring that no one is
left behind.
ASEAN and ASEAN+3 Platforms
• ASEAN serves as a key plat form to s trength en regional c ooperation and prom otion of regi onal peace and st ability.
ASEAN Community
Pillars Political-Security Economic2 Socio-Cultural
ASEAN Tracks Economic Finance Energy
BNM
• BNM’s involve ment in ASEAN is mainly thro ugh the Fina nce Track , whi ch
advances reg ional fina ncial integra tion across areas inclu ding payments , local
currency use, capital markets, sustainability, taxation and treasury functions.
• Beyond the Finance Track, BNM works closely with ministries across tracks and
pillars in the ASE AN Community to advance region al efforts i n areas including
trade, investment and geoeconomics.
• ASEAN Plus Three (APT) is the main cooperation platform among ASEAN and the ‘Plus Three’ countries
comprising China, Japan and Korea.
ASEAN+3
• BNM is involved in the Finance Process, which focuses on enhancing regional financial and economic surveillance
and strengthening the regional financial safety net, the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation (CMIM).3
1 At the ASEAN Summit in 2023, Leaders decided that Myanmar will not be taking over the rotating Chairmanship as scheduled in 2026.
2 The Economic Community consists of various tracks including Finance; Economic; Energy, Agriculture and Forestry; Transport; Tourism and others.
3 The CMIM is a liquidity support facility in the form of a multilateral currency swap arrangement, in which ASEAN+3 members commit to financially
support each other during a balance of payment and/or short-term liquidity difficulties.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ASEAN and ASEAN+3 Key Deliverables
We applied three core principles to guide our deliverables – (i) prioritising rakyat centric outcomes; (ii)
advancing Malaysia’s thought leadership; and (iii) delivering practical solutions with measurable impact.
With these principles in mind, our Priority Economic Deliverables (PEDs)2 focused on initiatives to promote
sustainable and inclusive regional growth (Diagram 2). These efforts are critical in strengthening regional
resilience and enhancing the region’s capacity to better withstand future shocks. These initiatives form
part of the national PEDs and the annual work plans of the ASEAN Finance Track Working Committees.
2 PEDs are initiatives of the ASEAN Chair that aim to yield impactful outcomes and contribute to ASEAN’s economic integration agenda. The
PEDs are to be implemented and fully completed during the Chairmanship year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 114411


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
ASEAN’s growth priorities include increased demand for cleaner, more reliable and resilient energy
supply. This requires ASEAN to upgrade its grid infrastructure and invest in renewable energy. In this
regard, we focused efforts on developing avenues to finance the ASEAN Power Grid (APG).3 Given the
scale and the early stage of the projects involved, we gathered the public, private and philanthropic
capital funders to discuss funding solutions for the APG. Following its launch, the ASEAN Power Grid
Financing Initiative (APGF)4 serves as a catalytic platform offering early-stage, non-debt funding to help
APG projects take off. This helps de-risk investments and strengthen the financial viability of the APG
projects in their initial stage, paving the way for greater private-sector participation as the projects mature.
BNM also took its domestic experience to the regional scene. Along with United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), we launched the ASEAN Greening Value
Chain (GVC) Playbook.5 The Playbook provides practical guidance for firms in the region to remain
competitive as global markets transition towards low carbon standards. This also supports access to new
markets and financing opportunities and creates more resilient jobs for the future. Two AMS have since
initiated the GVC programme with the release of the Playbook, with two more expressing interest.
In the payments area, BNM worked on inclusive payment connectivity across ASEAN. This aims to make
cross-border transactions simpler, faster and affordable. With increased regional payment linkages,
individuals, micro-entrepreneurs and businesses are now able to send and receive money across borders
with greater ease and at a lower cost. This, in turn, supports trade, tourism, remittances and everyday
transactions. By end-2025, ASEAN has formed 29 bilateral payment connectivity arrangements, from 18
in January 2025.
Diagram 2: BNM’s ASEAN Finance Track PEDs
Objective
• Improve access to broader sources of green/climate funding. This includes exploring alternative finance
mechanisms such as blended finance, to fund the APG.
Outcomes
Facilitate investment
• Secured commitment from more than 15 prominent investors and partners to support APG projects.1
for the ASEAN
• Strengthened efforts to mobilise funding for the ASEAN Power Grid Financing Initiative (APGF) through the
Power Grid (APG)
inaugural Ministerial Interface Meeting between the Energy, Economic and Finance tracks.
Objective
• Support ASEAN businesses including SMEs, in their transition to reduce emissions and manage climate risks.
Outcomes
Support the green • Published the ASEAN Greening Value Chain (GVC) Playbook which offers practical guidance for businesses,
transition of ASEAN financial institutions and policymakers to embed sustainability in value chains.
SMEs • Initiated the GVC programme pilot in Cambodia and Indonesia.
Objective
• Advance payment connectivity across ASEAN member states.
Outcomes
Enhance inclusive • Developed roadmap for connectivity which facilitates the participation of ASEAN member states in the
payment connectivity regional instant payment connectivity.
across ASEAN • Expanded number of cross-border payment linkages to 29 and increased volume of cross-border QR and P2P
transactions by 176% and 44%, respectively in 2025, compared to 2024.2
1 This includes the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB),
CIMB Islamic, HSBC Amanah, HSBC Bank Singapore, Islamic Development Bank, Japan Bank for International Cooperation, Khazanah
Nasional Berhad, Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (KWAP), Mizuho Bank (Malaysia) Berhad, MUFG Singapore, Standard Chartered Singapore,
The Rockefeller Foundation and Private Infrastructure Development Group (PIDG).
2 For more information on cross-border payment linkages, please refer to chapter on ‘Promoting Safe and Efficient Payment and Remittance
Services’.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
3 The ASEAN Power Grid (APG) is the shared vision of ASEAN Member States (AMS) for a fully integrated grid operations in Southeast Asia by
2045. The APG holds great promise for promoting regional economic integration and growth, enhancing energy security and accelerating clean
energy transition.
4 Led by ADB and World Bank in cooperation with the ASEAN Secretariat and the ASEAN Centre for Energy (ACE).
5 The playbook draws insights from Malaysia’s Greening Value Chain (GVC) pilot programme by the Joint Committee on Climate Change (JC3).
114422 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Beyond the PEDs, through ASEAN Working Committees, we worked to strengthen regional financial
stability and make cross-border payments work better for people and businesses. By spearheading the
Model Operating Guidelines for the Local Currency Transaction Framework, BNM helped expand the
use of local currencies in regional trade. This helps to reduce foreign-exchange costs and volatility for
businesses, particularly SMEs.
BNM also led the review of the ASEAN Banking Integration Framework (ABIF) Guidelines, providing
clearer and more consistent regulatory rules for ASEAN banks operating across borders. This supports
a more competitive banking environment, improving access to financing for businesses and households
across the region.
To strengthen crisis preparedness, BNM played a central role in efforts to re-establish the ASEAN Swap
Arrangement (ASA). The ASA provides short-term foreign-exchange liquidity support to member countries
facing balance-of-payments pressures. This regional safety net helps reduce the risk of sudden financial
disruptions that could spill over to jobs, incomes and everyday economic activity.
In facing the rising digital risks, we continued our regional collaboration through the ASEAN Cyber
Security Resilience and Information Sharing Platform (CRISP). By promoting the sharing of cyberthreat
intelligence and technical expertise, these efforts helped protect payment systems and financial services
that people and businesses rely on daily. In turn, aside from strengthening trust, this also promotes
resilience in the region’s financial system.
As co-chairs, alongside the People’s Bank of China, BNM led the efforts to enhance the Chiang Mai Initiative
Multilateralisation (CMIM), the region’s safety net, which has a total size of USD240 billion. A major milestone
in 2025 was the formation of the Rapid Financing Facility. This mechanism provides ASEAN+3 member
countries with quick access to emergency funds in the event of sudden financial pressures arising from
extreme events such as natural disasters.
BNM also worked closely with our counterparts to upgrade the CMIM’s funding mechanism into a paid-in
capital structure. This means countries contribute funds upfront, making the CMIM more readily usable.
This is intended to speed up the release of support and access to the funds during crises. Specifically,
we made progress through the adoption of a centralised base funding model for the paid-in capital
structure. This was also supported by a clear implementation roadmap. In parallel, work to strengthen
CMIM’s operational framework also progressed. This aims to improve accessibility, cost efficiency and
response time to crisis. Together, these efforts ensure that ASEAN+3 including Malaysia has the tools and
resources to cushion the impact of global economic shocks.
Diagram 3: BNM’s ASEAN+3 Deliverables
Objective
• Ensure that member countries can quickly get emergency financial help during a crisis.
Outcomes
Strengthen Secured agreement on:
CMIM funding • A base funding model that combines members’ contributions into one central pool;
mechanism1
• A roadmap to guide further development of the base funding model; and
• A specialised working group co-led by BNM and Bank of Korea to guide the transformation process.
Objective
• Ensure CMIM is ready and easy to access during crises.
Outcomes
Improve
• Developed a framework to assess CMIM’s ability to provide more emergency financial help without external support.2
CMIM’s key
• Set the foundation for a fairer cost structure if emergency financing is provided in local currencies.
features and
• Conducted a simulation exercise to identify and address operational gaps in the emergency financing process.
processes
1 This refers to CMIM’s transition from a structure where members individually commit to providing funds only when requested, to a more
predictable and transparent funding structure where funds are centralised into the liquidity facility before any requests.
2 A portion of CMIM resources can only be accessed through a joint funding arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which adds
additional procedures that may delay emergency funding disbursement.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 114433


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Strengthening ASEAN Collective Voice
BNM worked with AMS and strategic partners, including financial institutions, businesses and
international organisations, to address shared challenges and priorities. This included aligning views and
coordinating actions on issues such as US tariffs, fraud and scams, improving cross-border payments,
promoting sustainable finance and digital innovation.
As the region faces heightened geopolitical uncertainty, regional challenges and growing geoeconomic
fragmentation, such efforts helped ASEAN converge on clearer and coordinated regional positions and
action plans at a defining moment.
As part of these efforts, BNM supported the initiation of an independent study on structural barriers to
intra-ASEAN trade. This led to ASEAN+3 Macroeconomic Research Office’s (AMRO) in-depth analysis
on intra-regional trade and investment. The study comes at a pivotal moment, offering strategic
recommendations to unlock further growth potential for Malaysia and ASEAN. We also recommended for
the IMF to provide perspectives on shifting trade patterns and its implications for regional integration.6
Prime Minister of Malaysia, Yang Amat Berhormat Datuk Seri Anwar Finance Minister II Yang Berhormat Datuk Seri Amir Hamzah Azizan and
Ibrahim with Finance Minister II Yang Berhormat Datuk Seri Amir Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour alongside China co-chairs, Finance
Hamzah Azizan, Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour and other ASEAN Minister Lan Fo’an and Governor Pan Gongsheng of the People’s Bank
Finance Ministers and Governors at the ASEAN Finance Ministers and of China, at the ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers and Governors Meeting
Governors Meeting (AFMGM) on 10 April 2025, in Kuala Lumpur (AFMGM+3) Press Conference on 4 May 2025, in Milan
Deputy Governor Marzunisham Omar co-chairing the ASEAN Finance Deputy Governor Marzunisham Omar and other ASEAN representatives
and Central Bank Deputies Meeting (AFCDM) on 7 April 2025, in Kuala at the ASEAN Senior Level Committee on Financial Integration Meeting
Lumpur (SLC) on 13 March 2025, in Kota Kinabalu
6 IMF presented its study on ASEAN Integration in a Shifting Global Landscape during the IMF-ASEAN Roundtable in October 2025.
114444 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Enhancing Outreach Through ASEAN Finance Track Side Events and
Exhibitions
Aside from policy engagements, BNM organised side events to raise awareness of Malaysia’s
Chairmanship initiatives and deepen stakeholder engagement. These events brought together
policymakers, industry participants and international partners to engage in dialogues and collaborate
across areas such as sustainable finance, financial well-being, local currency transactions and
regional integration.
A key event was the Malaysia Open House Exhibition, jointly organised by BNM and the Ministry of
Finance. The exhibition attracted a diverse range of visitors, from financial institutions to ASEAN
SMEs, and showcased practical financial innovations with real world applications. One of the
highlights was a live demonstration of cross-border QR payments, now available in several ASEAN
countries. These solutions enable merchants and consumers to make instant mobile payments
across borders without complex processes or high fees. For small businesses, travellers and
everyday users, these make cross-border payments as seamless as domestic transactions.
Diagram 4: Side Events Organised by BNM on the Sidelines of the ASEAN Finance Track Meeting
Eminent Persons’ Dialogue on
Forum on Financial Well-being
ASEAN Financial Integration
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour together with Former Governor Tan Deputy Governor Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid speaking as a
Sri Dr. Zeti Akhtar Aziz and other panellists from the Eminent Persons’ panellist at the Forum on Financial Well-being
Dialogue: ASEAN Financial Integration in a Multipolar World
Summary Summary
• Closed-door exchange between prominent ASEAN leaders to • Growing awareness that financial inclusion should encompass
reflect ASEAN’s progress over the past decade, share current broader goals of financial well-being, beyond access to financial
challenges and surface practical solutions. services.
Outcomes Outcomes
• Called for the region to enhance its strategic autonomy and • Facilitated experience-sharing to improve financial decision-
reinforce its neutrality as the global balance of power shifts to making and build long-term resilience for individuals and small
multipolar world. businesses.
• Urged ASEAN to continue strengthening economic integration,
leveraging members’ strength and improve collective
decision-making.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 114455


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Pitching Session on ASEAN Green Projects Panel Session on Catalysing Trade and Investment
Pantas Climate Solutions showcasing its green project to investors Assistant Governor Mohamad Ali Iqbal Abdul Khalid with the speakers
and attendees at the ASEAN Pitch for Planet of the panel session on Advancing ASEAN Financial Integration:
Catalysing Trade and Investment
Summary Summary
• Showcased six Malaysian-based and four ASEAN-based climate • Gathered more than 400 participants to discuss the role of local
and sustainability-focused projects. currency transactions and call for greater adoption and
• Facilitated meaningful engagements among investors and collaboration.
project owners to mobilise funding.
Outcomes Outcomes
• Connected project owners with interested investors to explore • Strengthened visibility of the Local Currency Transaction
further collaboration opportunities. Framework and generated interest from other ASEAN
member states and private sector to explore its adoption.
• Kickstarted similar panel discussions in other ASEAN member
states.
Local Currency Initiatives in ASEAN Exhibition
Summary
• Six Appointed Cross-Currency Dealers (ACCDs) representing
Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia participated in showcasing
local currency initiatives across the ASEAN region.
Outcomes
• Enhanced visibility of the Local Currency Transaction Framework
(LCTF), generating interest from both ASEAN Member States
and private-sector participants to explore its adoption.
• Stimulated interest from additional parties seeking to participate
in the LCTF, helping to further expand its reach and potential
market impact.
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour with the Governor of the National
Bank of Cambodia, H.E. Dr. Chea Serey visiting the Local Currency
Initiatives Exhibition at the sidelines of the AFMGM
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
114466 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS
Promoting Cross-Pillar Collaboration
Beyond the Finance Track, we also worked closely with ministries7 across other tracks and pillars in
the ASEAN Community. Specifically, BNM facilitated the formation of a Ministerial Interface platform
across the Energy, Economic and Finance Tracks. This platform provides a coordinated approach to
mobilising investments for the APG, strengthening alignment across policy areas.
In parallel, through the ASEAN Geoeconomics Task Force (AGTF),8 BNM helped to identify key policies for
ASEAN to respond to rising geopolitical uncertainties. BNM further supported AGTF’s efforts to promote
cross-pillar collaboration on geoeconomic issues. This led to the first ASEAN Joint Foreign and Economic
Ministers’ (AMM–AEM) Meeting, which bridged the gap between the ASEAN’s Political-Security and
Economic pillars. The engagement reflected the growing intersection of security and economic issues,
alongside the need for a more coherent and coordinated regional response.
Assistant Governor Fraziali Ismail with Former Minister of Investment, Trade and Industry Yang Mulia Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Abdul Aziz, Former
Deputy Minister of Investment, Trade and Industry Yang Berhormat Liew Chin Tong, and other AGTF members at the Fifth Meeting of the AGTF on 22
September 2025, in Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia’s Chairmanship initiatives at both the ASEAN and ASEAN+3 strengthened ties with member
countries, regional bodies and strategic partners. By aligning regional positions and acting together,
ASEAN elevates its capacity to tackle economic shocks, trade disruptions and emerging global
risks. These outcomes bolstered collective resilience and delivered tangible benefits for Malaysia,
supporting jobs, keeping trade and payments smooth, and safeguarding incomes and livelihoods
amid global uncertainty.
7 This includes the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry and Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
8 The AGTF is an ad-hoc, specialised, high-level advisory body under the Economic Track – set up in early 2025 to provide coordinated, strategic,
and region wide analysis and actionable policy recommendations to support ASEAN Sectoral Bodies in addressing the current geopolitical and
geoeconomic challenges. The AGTF published the first geoeconomics report in November 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 114477


ecnanrevoG


ecnanrevoG


Governance
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) maintains strong governance arrangements to
ensure effective discharge of its mandates as set out in the Central Bank of
Malaysia Act 2009, along with other laws and regulations administered by BNM.
Board of Directors
The current 11 member Board comprises four The Independent Non-Executive Members are
Bank executives, the Secretary General of the essential to ensuring the Board’s independence
Treasury (ex officio), and six Independent Non- and objectivity. With extensive expertise
Executive Members who make up the majority. spanning economics, accounting and finance,
His Majesty the Yang di-Pertuan Agong appoints banking and insurance, risk management and
the Governor and Independent Non-Executive audit, strategic investment and sustainability,
Members, while the Minister of Finance appoints they challenge assumptions, provide balanced
the Deputy Governors. The Governor serves perspectives, and strengthen overall governance
a five-year renewable term, while Deputy of the Bank. The appointment of two new
Governors and Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Members in 2025
Members serve a three-year renewable further enhanced the Board’s diversity and capability
term each. to address emerging risks and opportunities.
150 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Board Committees
The Independent Non-Executive Members also serve as members of the Board Governance Committee,
Board Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee (Diagram 1). Each committee, operating under its own
Terms of Reference, supports the Board in providing checks and balances on BNM’s operations.
Diagram 1: Board Committees
Board Governance Board Audit (cid:7) Board Risk
Committee (BGC) Committee (BAC) Committee (BRC)
Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon
Chairperson Tan Sri Mohamed Azman Yahya Puan Chin Suit Fang a/p Y B Menon
• Tan Sri Mohamed Azman
• Puan Chin Suit Fang • Dr. Nungsari Ahmad Radhi Yahya
Members • Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon • Dato’ Sheranjiv a/l • Dr. Nungsari Ahmad Radhi
a/p Y B Menon M Sammanthan
• Puan Siti Hurrairah Sulaiman
Oversees BNM’s Oversees the integrity of Oversees the
governance framework and BNM’s accounts and implementation of BNM’s
practices. financial statements. enterprise risk
management framework.
Reviews and recommends Oversees the adequacy of Oversees BNM’s
to the Board on BNM’s BNM’s internal controls management of financial,
budget, business plan, and compliance with legal operational, reputational,
performance assessment requirements and internal climate and enviromental,
and remuneration policies. policies. and IT and cybersecurity
risks, including risk
Roles and Recommends the Reviews and approves governance, structure and
appointment and BNM’s audit framework, accountabilities in these
Responsibilities reappointment of members audit charter, internal areas.
of the Board and other audit plan and reports,
legislated committees of and oversees
BNM such as: management actions to
• Monetary Policy address material findings.
Committee
• Financial Stability
Executive Committee
• Shariah Advisory Council
• Monetary Penalty Review
Committee
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 151


GOVERNANCE
Effective Oversight and Strategic Decisions
Throughout 2025, the Board’s steer and support Credit Act 2025, which led to the establishment
ensured BNM discharged its mandates effectively of the Consumer Credit Commission to
while managing resources prudently. This was enhance consumer protection. The Board also
underpinned by the Board’s endorsement of acknowledged BNM’s continued efforts to
Business Plan 2025, which articulated our address financial scams by strengthening the
immediate priorities and performance indicators, fund tracing and recovery capabilities, as well as
and its oversight of progress throughout the year. preventive and awareness-building measures.
To safeguard monetary and financial stability, To strengthen operational effectiveness and
we apprised the Board, on an ongoing basis, of ensure prudent resource management, the Board
our assessments of the global economy, trade and BNM continued to reinforce institutional
dynamics and efforts to preserve Malaysia’s resilience. The Board approved key frameworks,
balance of payments and ringgit stability. The such as the capital asset ratio framework.
Board also provided input and guidance that The Board also approved a new strategic
supported us to fulfill our advisory role to the asset allocation for reserves to guide reserve
Government effectively. These include matters management for the next three years. The
surrounding advocating structural reforms Board guided BNM’s initiatives to modernise IT
in areas such as subsidy rationalisation and architecture, adopt generative artificial intelligence
investment incentives, and reforms to address (AI) to boost productivity and enhance our
medical inflation. In advancing the financial defence against cybersecurity. The Board is a
sector’s catalytic role in national development, the strong proponent of sustainability – providing
Board’s oversight supports BNM’s implementation steer, guidance and support for BNM to advance
of strategies under the Financial Sector Blueprint its transition towards Net Zero.
2022–2026.
To ensure its governance arrangements remain
The Board commended on achieving strong aligned with global best practices and industry
outcomes in the Financial Action Task standards, the Board Charter has been renewed.
Force Mutual Evaluation on Malaysia and The Board also performed an independent
its contributions to Malaysia’s ASEAN 2025 evaluation of its effectiveness at the Board and
Chairmanship, where BNM drove key deliverables Board Committee levels. Outcome of this exercise
for regional financial integration. The Board forms the basis for plans to further strengthen
welcomed the enactment of the Consumer their performance and governance practices.
152 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Attendance
The Board meets monthly as required, achieving 97% attendance for Board meetings and 93% for
committee meetings, as illustrated in the following table:
Designation Members Board BGC BAC BRC
Chairperson Dato’ Sri Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour 12/12
Dato’ Marzunisham Omar 12/12
Encik Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid 12/12
Ex officio
Member Encik Aznan Abdul Aziz1 9/9
Datuk Johan Mahmood Merican
9/12*
(Secretary General of the Treasury)
Puan Chin Suit Fang 12/12 6/6 7/7 1/1^
Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon a/p Y B Menon 12/12 5/6* 4/4
Independent Tan Sri Mohamed Azman Yahya 12/12 6/6 3/4*
Non-Executive
Member Dr. Nungsari Ahmad Radhi 11/12* 5/7* 4/4
Dato’ Sheranjiv a/l M Sammanthan 12/12 7/7 1/1^
Puan Siti Hurrairah Sulaiman 12/12 4/4
Retired in 2025
Ex officio Member Datuk Jessica Chew Cheng Lian2 3/3
1 Appointed on 1 April 2025.
2 Retired on 31 March 2025.
* Absent due to unavoidable commitments.
^ Non-members attending by invitation to discuss specific matters under consideration by the Committees.
Source: Bank Negara Malaysia
Note of Appreciation:
The Board of Directors extends its deep appreciation and gratitude to Datuk Jessica Chew Cheng Lian for her 32 years of
contributions to BNM, and the Board since her appointment as Deputy Governor on 1 January 2018.
Board Induction and Development
Upon appointment, the Independent Non- development policies, and supervision.
Executive Members undergo comprehensive They also participated in development
induction sessions on BNM’s mandates, policy programmes on contemporary themes
priorities, governing frameworks and operations. such as generative AI, digital assets, as
Throughout the year, they engaged in policy well as climate and sustainability. These
discussions with BNM’s management engagements and trainings enabled them to
and staff on core central banking issues, deepen their knowledge and understanding
including macroeconomics developments, of BNM business and to discharge their
reserves management, regulatory and oversight responsibilities effectively.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 153


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Front row (seated from left to right) Back row (standing from left to right)
Dr. Nungsari Ahmad Radhi Encik Aznan Abdul Aziz
Independent Non-Executive Member Ex officio Member
Puan Chin Suit Fang
Dato’ Sheranjiv a/l M Sammanthan
Independent Non-Executive Member
Independent Non-Executive Member
Dato’ Sri Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour
Tan Sri Mohamed Azman Yahya
Chairperson
Independent Non-Executive Member
Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon a/p Y B Menon Datuk Johan Mahmood Merican
Independent Non-Executive Member Ex officio Member, Secretary General of the Treasury,
Ministry of Finance
Puan Siti Hurrairah Sulaiman
Independent Non-Executive Member Dato’ Marzunisham Omar
Ex officio Member
Encik Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid
Ex officio Member
154 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Dato’ Sri Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour
Chairperson
Appointed to the Board: 16 July 2016
Qualifications
• Master of Business Administration, University of Oxford, United Kingdom
• Bachelor of Economics, University of Malaya, Malaysia
• Fellow Chartered Banker, Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of The SEACEN Centre
• Member, Board of Governors of The SEACEN Centre
• Chairperson, Board of Trustees of Staff Training Fund
• Council Member and Chairperson of Executive Committee of Islamic Financial Services
Board
• Member, Board of Directors of Malaysia Deposit Insurance Corporation
• Member, Governing Board of International Islamic Liquidity Management Corporation
• Member, Board of Directors of Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS)
• Member, Board of Trustees of National Trust Fund
Past Experiences
• Deputy Governor and member of Board of Directors, Bank Negara Malaysia
• Assistant Governor, Bank Negara Malaysia
• Alternate Executive Director, Southeast Asia Voting Group Office of the International
Monetary Fund
Dato’ Marzunisham Omar
Ex officio Member
Appointed to the Board: 15 June 2020
Qualifications
• Master of Arts (Economics), University of Cambridge, United Kingdom
• Bachelor of Arts (Economics), University of Cambridge, United Kingdom
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Member, Board of Directors of ASB Management Sdn. Bhd.
• Member, Board of Governors of Asia School of Business
• Member, Board of Directors of Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA) and
Chairperson of Board Audit Committee
• Member, Board of Directors of The SEACEN Centre
• Chairperson, National Coordination Committee to Counter Money Laundering
• Member, Advisory Board of National Anti-Financial Crime Centre
• Adjunct Professor, Universiti Utara Malaysia
Past Experiences
• Assistant Governor, Bank Negara Malaysia
• Executive Director, South East Asia Voting Group of the International Monetary Fund
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 155


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Encik Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid
Ex officio Member
Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2023
Qualifications
• Master of Public Policy, Blavatnik School of Government, University of Oxford,
United Kingdom
• Master of Science in Global Market Economics, London School of Economics and
Political Science, United Kingdom
• Bachelor of Science in Economics, London School of Economics and Political
Science, United Kingdom
• Chartered Professional in Islamic Finance, Chartered Institute of Islamic Finance
Professionals
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Member, Board of Directors of Securities Commission Malaysia
• Member, Board of Directors of Nexus Global Payments
• Member, Board Executive Committee of International Islamic Liquidity Management
Corporation
• Member, Board of Directors of Retirement Fund (Incorporated)
• Member, Board of Directors of International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance
(INCEIF) University and Chairperson of Executive Committee
• Member, Ad Hoc Governance Committee of Islamic Financial Services Board
• Member, Board of Trustees of Staff Training Fund
• Adjunct Professor, Universiti Malaysia Terengganu
Past Experiences
• Assistant Governor, Bank Negara Malaysia
• Member, Leadership Council of Malaysia International Islamic Financial Centre
• Authority Member, Labuan Financial Services Authority
• Member, Investment Panel of Employee Provident Fund
• Member, Board of Directors of Credit Guarantee Corporation Malaysia Berhad
• Member, Executive Committee of Islamic Financial Services Board
• Member, Board of Directors of Maybank Venture Capital Company Sdn. Bhd.
156 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Encik Aznan Abdul Aziz
Ex officio Member
Appointed to the Board: 1 April 2025
Qualifications
• Bachelor of Science in Economics and Accounting, University of Bristol, United Kingdom
• Chartered Financial Analyst
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Danamodal Nasional Berhad
• Alternate Member, Board of Directors of Malaysia Deposit Insurance Corporation
Past Experiences
• Assistant Governor, Bank Negara Malaysia
• Member, Board of Directors of Labuan Financial Services Authority
• Ex officio Member of Financial Reporting Foundation
• Member, Executive Committee of International Association of Insurance Supervisors
• Chairperson, Board Audit Committee of International Islamic Liquidity Management
Corporation
• Chairperson, Financial Technology Enabler Group
• Chairperson of the Board of Management, The ASEAN Insurance Training and Research
Institute
• Member, Board of Directors of TPPT Sdn. Bhd.
• Member of the Board of Directors and Chairperson of the Executive Committee of The
Malaysian Insurance Institute
• Alternate Member, Board of Directors of the Vehicle Theft Reduction Council of Malaysia
Berhad
• Assistant General Manager, Danamodal Nasional Berhad
Datuk Johan Mahmood Merican
Ex officio Member
Appointed to the Board: 27 February 2023
Secretary General of the Treasury, Ministry of Finance
Qualifications
• Bachelor of Arts (Economics), University of Cambridge, United Kingdom
• Associate Chartered Accountant, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Chairperson, MySalam
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Retirement Fund (Incorporated)
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Public Sector Home Financing Board
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Digital Nasional Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Permodalan Nasional Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Malaysia Deposit Insurance Corporation
• Member, Board of Executive Directors of Islamic Development Bank
Past Experiences
• Deputy Secretary General of Treasury (Policy), Ministry of Finance
• Director of National Budget Office, Ministry of Finance
• Chief Executive Officer, Talent Corporation Malaysia Berhad (TalentCorp)
• Principal Private Secretary to the Minister in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning Unit
• Deputy Director General (Human Capital), Economic Planning Unit
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 157


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Puan Chin Suit Fang
Independent Non-Executive Member
Appointed to the Board: 1 November 2019
Qualifications
• Malaysian Institute of Accountants
• Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Member, Monetary Penalty Review Committee
Past Experiences
• Partner, PwC Malaysia
• Markets Leader for PwC Malaysia and PwCMYVN (Malaysia & Vietnam)
• Corporate Responsibility and Diversity & Inclusion Leader, PwC Malaysia
• Member, PwC Global Gender Advisory Council
• Mentor for Women in Leadership Malaysia by ICAEW & TalentCorp Malaysia
Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon a/p Y B Menon
Independent Non-Executive Member
Appointed to the Board: 16 March 2020
Qualifications
• Postgraduate qualifications in Insurance Medicine
• Bachelor in Medicine, University of Mysore, India
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Member, Board of Directors of Sime Darby Berhad
• Chairperson, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
• Member, Investment Committee
• Member, Board of Directors of Singlife Holdings Private Limited (Singapore)
• Member, Sustainability Committee
• Member, Audit Committee
• Member, Risk Committee
• Member, Board of Directors of Amanat Lebuhraya Rakyat Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Sistem Penyuraian Trafik KL Barat Sdn. Bhd. (SPRINT)
• Member, Board of Directors of Lingkaran Trans Kota Sdn. Bhd. (LITRAK)
• Director and Shareholder, Tasuni Superannuation Pty Ltd
Past Experiences
• Member, Board of Directors of AXA Affin General Insurance Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Khazanah Nasional Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Avicennia Capital Sdn. Bhd.
• President and Chief Executive Officer, ING Malaysia Berhad
• Head of South Asia, ING Asia Pacific Limited
• Executive Vice President, Head of Designated Markets & Health Asia, Metlife Asia Pacific Limited
• Medical Officer, Hospital Kuala Lumpur
158 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Tan Sri Mohamed Azman Yahya
Independent Non-Executive Member
Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2020
Qualifications
• Bachelor of Science (Economics), London School of Economics and Political Science,
United Kingdom
• Institute of Bankers Malaysia
• Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
• Malaysian Institute of Accountants
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Symphony House Sdn. Bhd.
• Member, Board of Directors of Beringin Land Sdn. Bhd.
• Member, Board of Directors of Azman & Sons Sdn. Bhd.
Past Experiences
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Sepang International Circuit Berhad
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Ranhill Utilities Berhad
• Chairperson, Corporate Debt Restructuring Committee
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Pengurusan Danaharta Nasional Berhad*
• Member, Board of Directors of Khazanah Nasional Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Sime Darby Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of AIA Group Limited
• Member, Board of Directors of PLUS Expressways Berhad
• Member to PEMUDAH, Financial Reporting Foundation, Capital Market Advisory Group, Malaysia
Special Economic Committee
Dr. Nungsari Ahmad Radhi
Independent Non-Executive Member
Appointed to the Board: 15 February 2023
Qualifications
• Doctor of Philosophy (Economics), Purdue University, United States of America
• Master of Science (Mathematics), Southern Illinois University, United States of America
• Bachelor of Arts (Economics and Mathematics), Southern Illinois University, United States of America
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Chairperson, Board of Directors of Malaysia Airports Holdings Berhad
• Member, Policy Advisory Committee to the Prime Minister
• Director, Ratulin Sdn. Bhd.
• Member, Board of Trustees of Khazanah Research Institute
• Member, Board of Trustees of Yayasan Rahimah binti Yusof
Past Experiences
• Director, Koperasi Tunas Muda Sungai Ara Berhad
• Executive Chairperson, Malaysia Aviation Commission
• Executive Director, Khazanah Nasional Berhad
• Managing Director, Prokhas Sdn. Bhd.
• Principal Officer, Board of Directors of DanaInfra Nasional Berhad
• Principal Officer and Member, Board of Directors of Pengurusan Danaharta Nasional Berhad
• Principal Officer and Member, Board of Directors of Syarikat Jaminan Kredit Perumahan Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Commerce Tijari Bank/CIMB Islamic Bank Berhad
• Member, Board of Directors of Bank Pertanian Malaysia
* Also served as the Managing Director of Pengurusan Danaharta Nasional Berhad prior to his appointment as Chairperson.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 159


GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Dato’ Sheranjiv a/l M Sammanthan
Independent Non-Executive Member
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2025
Qualifications
• Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting), University of Birmingham, United Kingdom
• Fellow of Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
• Fellow of Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Co-Founder and Executive Director of Fitrah Capital Associates LLC
• Member, Board of Trustees of Yayasan Munarah
Past Experiences
• Member, Board of Directors of S.P. Setia Berhad
• Chairperson, Risk Management Committee
• Member, Finance and Investment Committee
• Member, Sustainability Committee
• Director of Battersea Project Holding Company Limited
• Partner/Executive Director/Senior Manager, PwC Kuala Lumpur and PW/PwC London
• Executive Director - Managing Director’s Office, Khazanah Nasional Berhad
• Director, Khazanah Europe Investment Limited
• Representative for Khazanah Nasional Berhad, Institutional Investor Council of Malaysia
• Executive Director, Taman Tugu Project Development Sdn. Bhd.
• Non-Executive Director, Malaysia Aviation Group Berhad
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, UEM Sunrise Berhad
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, UEM Land Berhad
• Member, Audit Committee, M+S (Pte) Limited, Singapore
• Member, Board of Trustees of Yayasan Hasanah
Puan Siti Hurrairah Sulaiman
Independent Non-Executive Member
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2025
Qualifications
• Bachelor of Engineering (Mechanical), Imperial College London, United Kingdom
Key Appointments and Directorships
• Country Chair of Shell Malaysia
• Senior Vice President for the Shell Upstream in Malaysia
• Director on the Board of various Shell Companies and Subsidiaries in Malaysia
• Vice President of Malaysian Petroleum Club
• Member, Board of Trustees of Merdeka Award Trust
Past Experiences
• Shell Group
• Vice President, Technical Asset Operations (Global)
• Vice President, Integrated Gas Ventures East (Regional)
• General Manager, Global Operations Commercial Services in Shell’s Trading and
Supply United Kingdom
• Asset Manager and Director, Sabah Shell Petroleum Company Limited
• Representative for Shell as Director on the Board of Brunei LNG (Brunei), Shell Middle
Distillate Synthesis (Malaysia) and the ex-British Gas Companies (India)
160 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Senior Management
As provided by the Central Bank of Malaysia Committee and the Joint Policy Committee, a
Act 2009, the Governor is responsible for the committee tasked to deliberate cross-cutting
management of BNM in discharging its mandates. issues and coordinate policies that may have
In performing these duties, the Governor is impact on the financial system and the broader
assisted by a senior management team consisting economy. The management committees enable
of Deputy and Assistant Governors. BNM’s BNM to draw on diverse functional backgrounds
organisation structure is designed to promote and insights across the organisation to arrive at
clear lines of reporting and accountability across well-informed decisions through open and candid
its wide-ranging functions. deliberations.
Various management committees are established Supported by these structures, senior
to enable the senior management team and management sets internal policies and leads the
other senior officers to deliberate on BNM’s operations of BNM to ensure that it gives effect to
business, and in particular those involving the its objects, carries out its functions and uses its
organisation’s strategy and top-most priorities. resources in a manner that is effective, prudent
These management committees include policy and consistent with the interests of BNM, for the
committees such as the Financial Stability benefit of the nation.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 161


GOVERNANCE
Management Committee
First row (from left to right) Third row (from left to right)
Marzunisham Omar Madelena Mohamed
Deputy Governor Assistant Governor
Aznan Abdul Aziz Cindy Siah Hooi Hoon
Deputy Governor Assistant Governor
Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour
Governor Fourth row (from left to right)
Mohamad Ali Iqbal Abdul Khalid
Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid
Assistant Governor
Deputy Governor
Suhaimi Ali
Assistant Governor
Second row (from left to right)
Fraziali Ismail
Assistant Governor
Dr. Norhana Endut
Assistant Governor
Abd. Rahman Abu Bakar
Assistant Governor
162 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Senior Officers
Governor Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour
Deputy Governor Marzunisham Omar
Deputy Governor Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid
Deputy Governor Aznan Abdul Aziz
Assistant Governor Abd. Rahman Abu Bakar
Assistant Governor Fraziali Ismail
Assistant Governor Dr. Norhana Endut
Assistant Governor Suhaimi Ali
Assistant Governor Mohamad Ali Iqbal Abdul Khalid
Assistant Governor Madelena Mohamed
Assistant Governor Cindy Siah Hooi Hoon
Secretary to the Board Nik Nurazlina Ali
Governor's Office -
Internal Audit Kamarul Nazim Yop Ahmad
Risk Management Muhamad Jamil Fathi Jamaludin
Ethics and Integrity Office Santamarie Shamni Arulanandam
Legal Mohd Sofiyuddin Ahmad Tabrani
Sustainability Shasha Kartini Ridzam
Strategic Communications Roy Lim Way Zhi
Financial Intelligence Zarifa Izan Zainol Abidin
Financial Investigation and Enforcement Suhanna Omar
Financial Surveillance Endran Fadzil
Prudential Financial Policy Nul Azlin Ahyaluddin
Consumer and Market Conduct Lau Chin Ching
Payment Services Policy Qaiser Iskandar Anwarudin
Financial Conglomerates Supervision Hong Chin Pheng
Banking Supervision Mohd Zabidi Md Nor
Insurance and Takaful Supervision Hoo Hon Shiong
Risk Specialist and Technology Supervision Hew Ee-Lu
Payment Services Oversight Mohd. Faizal Abdullah
Financial Development and Innovation Harizal Alias
Islamic Finance Nurul Izza Idris
Financial Inclusion Nor Rafidz Nazri
LINK and BNM Offices Thomas Tan Koon Peng
Investment Shahredza Minhat
Market Operations and Development Nurashiqin Asri
Treasury Risk and Infrastructure Yusof Ramzan Abd Rahim
Foreign Exchange Policy Albert See Choon Kwang
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 163


GOVERNANCE
Economics Dr. Mohamad Hasni Sha’ari
Monetary Policy Raja Syamsul Anwar Raja Mohammed Affandi
International Ida Harniza Johar
Data Management and Statistics Ong Li Ming
Chief Information Officer Tay Gim Soon
Business Technology Victor Khor Eng Swee
Digital Technology Infrastructure Ahmad Affzan Mokhtar Anuar
Cyber Security Aizuddin Mohd Ghazali
Financial Market Infrastructure Noor Hazama Fadhilah Abdullah
People Razman Samsudin
Currency Mohamad Zaini Ab Jabbar
Finance Toh Ying Ying
Chief Services Officer Mohd Fuad Arshad
Facility Management Services Yuserizal Mohd Noor
Hospitality and Museum Noreen Zulkepli
Organisational Security Management Abd. Razak Hussin
Centralised Procurement Zulkippli Haron
Beijing Representative Office Mohd Faizal Md. Fathil
London Representative Office Hasman Farid Mohd Ali Noh
New York Representative Office Aimran Yahaya
BNM Regional Office Johor Bahru Rosnani Mahamad Zain
BNM Regional Office Pulau Pinang Panimoli Kalidass
BNM Regional Office Kuching Rantai Naga
BNM Regional Office Kota Kinabalu Adlis Khairil Sazli Mohd Zaini
BNM Regional Office Kuala Terengganu Zambre Ismail
BNM Regional Office Kuala Lumpur Ruziana Mohd Mokhtar
164 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 165
As at
March
Payment
Services
Oversight
Supervision
Payment
Services
Policy
Risk
Specialist
and
Technology
LINK
and
BNM
Offices
Foreign
Exchange
Policy
Data
Management
and
Statistics
Financial
Market
Infrastructure
Centralised
Procurement
Consumer
and
Market
Conduct
Insurance
and
Takaful
Supervision
Financial
Inclusion
Treasury
Risk
and
Infrastructure
International
Cyber
Security
Currency
Organisational
Security
Management
Prudential
Financial
Policy
Banking
Supervision
Islamic
Finance
Market
Operations
and
Development
Monetary
Policy
Digital
Technology
Infrastructure
Finance
Hospitality
and
Museum
Financial
Surveillance
Financial
Conglomerates
Supervision
Financial
Development
and
Innovation
Investment
Economics
Business
Technology
People
Facility
Management
Services
ASSISTANT
GOVERNOR
ASSISTANT
GOVERNOR
ASSISTANT
GOVERNOR
ASSISTANT
GOVERNOR
ASSISTANT
GOVERNOR
CHIEF
INFORMATION
OFFICER
CHIEF
SERVICES
OFFICER
Regulation
Supervision
Development
Financial
Markets
Economics
Digital
and
Technology
Operations
Centralised
Shared
Services
Financial
Investigation
and
Enforcement
Financial
Intelligence
DEPUTY
GOVERNOR
DEPUTY
GOVERNOR
DEPUTY
GOVERNOR
CH
(A IE S F S I O ST P A E N R T A T G IN O G VE
O R F N F O IC R E ) R
Sustainability
Strategic
Communications
Ethics
and
Integrity
Office
Legal
Secretary
to
the
Board
Governor’s
Office
ASSISTANT
GOVERNOR
Strategy
and
Sustainability
GOVERNOR
Internal
Audit
Risk
Management
Board
Audit
Committee
Board
Governance
Committee
Board
Risk
Committee
BOARD
OF
DIRECTORS
Organisation
Structure
BANK
NEGARA
MALAYSIA


GOVERNANCE
Statutory Committees
In certain areas, the responsibility for decision-making is placed beyond the direct remit of the Board or
Management. These matters are reserved for specific organs created by statute.
Monetary Policy Committee
The primary objective of monetary policy in Malaysia is to maintain price stability while giving due regard
to developments in the economy. Under the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 (CBA 2009), the Monetary
Policy Committee (MPC) of BNM is responsible for formulating monetary policy and the policies for the
conduct of monetary policy operations. The MPC decides on the policy interest rate, also known as the
Overnight Policy Rate (OPR), that influences other interest rates in the economy.
In carrying out this mandate, the MPC determines monetary policy based on its assessment of the
balance of risks to both Malaysia’s inflation and growth outlook. The MPC also monitors risks of financial
imbalances given their destabilising implications on the economy. The MPC meets at least six times a
year to decide on the OPR and publishes its Monetary Policy Statement (MPS) after each meeting to
explain its decisions.
The MPC comprises the Governor, the Deputy Governors, and not less than three but not more than
seven other members. These include external members who are appointed by the Minister of Finance,
as recommended by BNM’s Board Governance Committee. The MPC currently has ten members, three
of whom are external members. The membership of the MPC seeks to bring together a diverse range of
experiences and expertise that is critical for sound monetary policy decision-making.
Members*
Dato’ Sri Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour (Chairperson)
Dato’ Marzunisham Omar
Adnan Zaylani Mohamad Zahid
Aznan Abdul Aziz
Dr. Norhana Endut
Fraziali Ismail
Mohamad Ali Iqbal Abdul Khalid
Nor Zahidi Alias (External Member)
Lim Chee Sing (External Member)
Datuk Yogeesvaran Kumaraguru (External Member)
* As at 31 March 2026
166 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Financial Stability Executive Committee
The Financial Stability Executive Committee (FSEC) was established in 2010 pursuant to Section 37 of
the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 (CBA 2009). The FSEC supports BNM’s statutory mandate of
preserving financial stability through its powers to decide on specific policy measures that may be taken
by BNM to avert or reduce risks to financial stability.
In carrying out this mandate, the FSEC reviews, assesses and decides on proposals tabled by BNM to:
• issue orders to a person or financial institution that is not regulated nor supervised by BNM to
undertake specific measures in the interest of financial stability;
• extend liquidity assistance to a financial institution that is not regulated nor supervised by BNM, or to
the overseas operations of a licensed financial institution in Malaysia; and
• provide capital support to a licensed financial institution in Malaysia that has ceased to be viable or is
likely to become non-viable.
This serves to ensure continuous and effective financial intermediation, including the orderly functioning of
the money market and foreign exchange market, and preserve public confidence in the financial system.
The FSEC consists of seven members, a majority of whom are non-executive members who are
independent of BNM’s Management. Members are subject to the FSEC Code of Ethics and Conflict of
Interest, which serves to preserve the integrity of the FSEC’s decisions. In 2025, the FSEC met twice
to discuss developments and assessments on financial stability risks amid a global environment of
heightened volatility arising from the ongoing uncertainties surrounding policies from major economies
and developments in geopolitical conflicts.
Members*
Dato’ Sri Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour (Chairperson)
Dato’ Marzunisham Omar
Datuk Johan Mahmood Merican (Independent non-executive member)
Dato’ Mohammad Faiz Azmi (Independent non-executive member)
Rafiz Azuan Abdullah (Independent non-executive member)
Dato’ Abdul Rauf Rashid (Independent non-executive member)
Wong Chee Lin (Independent non-executive member)
* As at 31 March 2026
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 167


GOVERNANCE
Shariah Advisory Council
The Shariah Advisory Council (SAC) of Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) was established in May 1997 as the
highest Shariah authority for Islamic financial institutions in Malaysia. The Central Bank of Malaysia Act
2009 (CBA 2009) outlined the roles and functions of the SAC as the authority for the ascertainment of
Islamic law for the purposes of Islamic financial business which are supervised and regulated by BNM.
The ascertainment of Islamic law by the SAC (SAC’s ascertainment) serves as a reference for Islamic
financial institutions in ensuring their business operations comply with Shariah principles. The SAC’s
ascertainment also serves as a reference for the courts and arbitrators. In this regard, the SAC specifies
the principal requirements taking into consideration various Shariah views, research findings, as well as
custom and market practices. The SAC is therefore central to promoting certainty of Shariah practices
and sustaining public confidence in the Islamic financial system.
The SAC members are appointed by His Majesty the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. Currently, the SAC has nine
members comprising Shariah scholars and practitioners with vast experience, domestically and abroad in
the areas of Shariah, law, accounting, audit, Islamic economics and finance.
In 2025, the SAC met eight times to deliberate and address pressing issues and measures to strengthen
long-term developmental impact on the Islamic finance ecosystem in Malaysia.
Members*
Dato’ Prof. Dr. Ashraf Md Hashim (Chairperson)1
Prof. Dr. Engku Rabiah Adawiah Engku Ali (Deputy Chairperson)1
Sahibus Samahah Dato’ Setia Dr. Haji Anhar Haji Opir
Dr. Marjan Muhammad
Dr. Ahmad Basri Ibrahim
Burhanuddin Lukman1
Prof. Dr. Amir Shaharuddin2
Dr. Abdul Rahim Abdul Rahman2
Dato’ Zabariah Mohd Yusof3
Service term ended on 31 December 2025
Datuk Prof. Dr. Mohamad Akram Laldin
1 Reappointed on 1 January 2026
2 Appointed on 1 May 2025
3 Appointed on 1 February 2026
* As at 31 March 2026
168 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


GOVERNANCE
Monetary Penalty Review Committee
The Monetary Penalty Review Committee (MPRC) is an independent committee established under section
238 of the Financial Services Act 2013 (FSA) and section 249 of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013
(IFSA). The MPRC considers appeals from persons (individuals or institutions) against the administrative
monetary penalties (AMPs) or pecuniary remedies imposed by BNM in exercising its administrative
enforcement powers under the FSA, the IFSA, the Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 and the
Currency Act 2020 (CA).1
The MPRC provides an independent avenue for aggrieved parties to appeal against BNM’s decisions.
The MPRC may decide to either confirm BNM’s decision or require BNM to reconsider and reach a
decision in accordance with the findings of the MPRC. The members of MPRC are appointed by the
Minister of Finance from among the Independent Non Executive Board Members of BNM or other
external persons upon recommendation by BNM.
Members*
Datuk Abdul Karim bin Abdul Jalil (Chairperson)
Chin Suit Fang
Goh Ka Im
1 For the CA, the appeals would only be against the AMPs imposed by BNM.
* As at 31 March 2026
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 169


OUR FINANCES
170 ANNUAL REPORT 2025
secnaniF
ruO


OUR FINANCES
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 171
secnaniF
ruO


Our Finances
BNM recorded a net profit after tax of RM12.45 fluctuations in the foreign currency assets.
billion for the financial year ended 31 December The balance of the net profit of RM5 billion will
2025 (2024: RM13.16 billion), following total income be paid as dividend to the Government (2024:
of RM14.35 billion (2024: RM14.98 billion), net of RM5.25 billion).
costs associated with managing the reserves
portfolio and monetary operations. For 2025, we Total assets as at 31 December 2025 stood at
spent RM1.86 billion in managing our organisation. RM602.22 billion (2024: RM621.54 billion), mainly
reflecting currency translation effects amid
Of the RM12.45 billion net profit, RM7.45 billion the strengthening of the ringgit. International
(2024: RM7.91 billion) will be transferred to the reserves continued to account for the bulk of
Risk Reserve,1 which stood at RM155.31 billion our assets amounting to RM509.79 billion (2024:
as at end-2025 (2024: RM147.90 billion). As RM520.13 billion). Our liabilities comprised mainly
85% of our assets are denominated in foreign currency in circulation (2025: RM177.75 billion;
currency, it is important for us to build adequate 2024: RM170.72 billion) and deposits by financial
Risk Reserves. This allows us to cushion against institutions (2025: RM118.06 billion; 2024:
financial market volatility and exchange rate RM131.92 billion).
Note: Page numbers ‘3 to 21’
in the Certificate of the
Auditor General refer to
pages 179 to 191 in this
1 Risk Reserve comprises cumulative transfers of net profits, foreign Report.
exchange differences arising from translation of foreign currency
assets and liabilities, and changes in fair value of financial assets.
172 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 173


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
174 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 175


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
176 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
We, Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour and Chin Suit Fang, being the Chairperson and one of the Directors of Bank
Negara Malaysia, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements are drawn
up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of Bank Negara Malaysia as at 31 December
2025 and financial performance for the financial year then ended, in accordance with the Central Bank of
Malaysia Act 2009 and the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (MFRS) to the extent that it is, in the
opinion of the Directors, appropriate to do so, having regard to the objects and functions of Bank Negara
Malaysia.
On behalf of the Board of Directors,
ABDUL RASHEED GHAFFOUR CHIN SUIT FANG
CHAIRPERSON DIRECTOR
25 FEBRUARY 2026 25 FEBRUARY 2026
KUALA LUMPUR KUALA LUMPUR
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 177


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
DECLARATION BY THE OFFICER PRIMARILY RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
I, Toh Ying Ying, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Bank
Negara Malaysia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2025, are to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory
Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared )
by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur )
on 25 February 2026. )
Before me,
178 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2025
2025 2024
RM million RM million
ASSETS Note
Gold and Foreign Financial Assets 3 480,292 489,309
International Monetary Fund Reserve Position and 4 29,494 30,821
Holdings of Special Drawing Rights
Malaysian Government Papers 5 13,420 12,805
Deposits with Financial Institutions 6 2,535 -
Loans and Advances 7 28,416 26,310
Property and Equipment 8 4,564 4,598
Other Assets 9 43,498 57,697
Total Assets 602,219 621,540
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Currency in Circulation 177,750 170,720
Deposits from: Financial Institutions 118,059 131,918
Federal Government 4,504 5,233
Others 10 65,572 79,866
Bank Negara Papers 11 9,007 12,431
Allocation of Special Drawing Rights 4 26,830 28,185
Other Liabilities 12 3,752 3,121
Total Liabilities 405,474 431,474
Capital 13 100 100
General Reserve Fund 14 28,888 28,888
Risk Reserve 15 155,310 147,896
Unappropriated Profits 16 12,447 13,182
Total Capital and Reserves 196,745 190,066
Total Liabilities and Capital 602,219 621,540
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 179


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2025
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Note
Total Income 17 14,345 14,978
Less:
Recurring Expenditure 18 (1,706) (1,647)
Development Expenditure 19 (150) (128)
Total Expenditure (1,856) (1,775)
Net Profit Before Tax 12,489 13,203
Less: Taxation 20 (42) (41)
Net Profit After Tax 12,447 13,162
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
180 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
31 DECEMBER 2025
1. General Information
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) is a statutory body established under the Central Bank of Malaysia
Act 1958 which has been repealed by the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009. The principal place of
business is located at Bank Negara Malaysia, Jalan Dato’ Onn, 50480 Kuala Lumpur.
The principal objects of BNM are to promote monetary stability and financial stability conducive to
the sustainable growth of the Malaysian economy. In this regard, BNM’s primary functions are as
follows:
(a) to formulate and conduct monetary policy in Malaysia;
(b) to issue currency in Malaysia;
(c) to regulate and supervise financial institutions which are subject to the laws enforced by BNM;
(d) to provide oversight over money and foreign exchange markets;
(e) to exercise oversight over payment systems;
(f) to promote a sound, progressive and inclusive financial system;
(g) to hold and manage the foreign reserves of Malaysia;
(h) to promote an exchange rate regime consistent with the fundamentals of the economy; and
(i) to act as financial adviser, banker and financial agent of the Government.
2. Accounting Policies
2.1 Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements
(a) The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Central Bank of
Malaysia Act 2009 and the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (MFRS).
Section 10 of the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 provides that BNM, in preparing its
financial statements, shall comply with the MFRS to the extent that it is, in the opinion of
the Directors, appropriate to do so, having regard to the objects and functions of BNM.
The Directors, having considered BNM’s responsibilities for managing effective monetary
policy and promoting financial stability, are of the opinion that, it is appropriate to differ, in
some respects, from the MFRS.
(b) The preparation of the financial statements based on MFRS requires the management
to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies. It also
requires the use of estimates and assumptions, based on available information, that may
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of
income and expenses during the financial year. Although these estimates are based on
the management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, the actual results could
differ from these estimates.
(c) The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on
an accrual basis, except as otherwise disclosed.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 181


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
2.2 Change in Accounting Policy
During the financial year, BNM changed its accounting policy for motor vehicles where the
costs of the motor vehicles exceeding a certain threshold is capitalised. This provides more
relevant information as motor vehicles are expected to provide economic benefits over its
useful life and this aligns with MFRS requirement.
The impact of the change in accounting policy is not material to BNM’s financial position and
operations.
2.3 Foreign Currency Translation
(a) The financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia, BNM’s functional currency,
and rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated.
(b) Transactions in foreign currencies are measured at the exchange rate prevailing at the
date of transaction. Foreign currency gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such
transactions are recognised in the Income Statement.
(c) Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Ringgit
Malaysia using the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange
differences arising from the translation are recognised in the Risk Reserve.
2.4 Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which BNM has control. BNM controls an entity when BNM
is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has
the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the relevant activities of the
entity.
(b) Associates
Associates are entities over which BNM has significant influence but not control or joint
control, and generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the
voting rights of the entity.
BNM does not consolidate the financial performance of its subsidiaries and associates as these
entities were established for developmental and financial stability purposes. Investment in
subsidiaries and associates are carried at cost and adjusted for impairment, if any.
2.5 Gold
Gold is stated at fair value and changes in the fair value of gold are recognised in the Risk
Reserve. Realised gains or losses from the sale of gold are recognised in the Income
Statement.
2.6 Foreign Financial Assets
Foreign financial assets, comprising fixed income securities and equities, are stated at fair
value. Changes in the fair value are recognised in the Risk Reserve or the Income Statement
based on classification of the financial instruments. Realised gains or losses from the sale of
financial assets are recognised in the Income Statement.
182 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
2.7 Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements (Repos and Reverse Repos)
Repos and Reverse Repos are treated as collateralised borrowing and lending. The securities
sold under Repos are not derecognised from the Statement of Financial Position, and the
corresponding amount borrowed is reported under Other Liabilities. Similarly, the securities
purchased under Reverse Repos are not recognised in the Statement of Financial Position and
the corresponding amount lent is reported under Other Assets. The difference between sale
and repurchase price under Repos and Reverse Repos is recognised as interest expense and
interest income respectively in the Income Statement.
2.8 Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. The cost includes
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item. Subsequent costs are
added to the asset’s carrying amount, or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only
when it is probable that they will generate future economic benefits to BNM and the cost can be
reliably measured. Repair and maintenance costs is charged to the Income Statement during
the financial period in which they are incurred.
Freehold land and work-in-progress are not depreciated. Leasehold land, buildings and motor
vehicles are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Useful Life
Leasehold land Period of the lease
Buildings on freehold land 50 years
Buildings on leasehold land 50 years or remaining lease period (whichever is
shorter)
Building improvement Remaining useful life of the building
Motor vehicles 5 years
On disposal of property and equipment, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and
the net carrying amount is recognised in the Income Statement.
2.9 Other Fixed Assets
All other fixed assets are fully expensed in the year of purchase.
2.10 Impairment of Non-Financial Assets
Assets are assessed for impairment when there is indication that the asset’s carrying amount
may not be recoverable. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is
estimated to determine the amount of impairment loss. The impairment loss is recognised in the
Income Statement.
Reversal of impairment losses recognised in prior years is recorded when there is an indication
that the impairment losses recognised for the assets no longer exist. The reversal if any, is
recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that it does not exceed the carrying amount
of the assets had no impairment losses been recognised for the assets in prior years.
2.11 Currency in Circulation
Currency in circulation (CIC) represents banknotes and coins, including commemorative
banknotes and coins, and demonetised currency, that have been issued by BNM for use in
the economy. The CIC is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at face value when
they are placed into circulation and derecognised when they are withdrawn from circulation.
Expenses incurred in the purchase and production of banknotes and coins are recognised in
the Income Statement.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 183


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
2.12 Net Profit
The net profit of BNM is appropriated in accordance with section 7 of the Central Bank of
Malaysia Act 2009.
3. Gold and Foreign Financial Assets
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Gold 21,794 14,556
Securities 363,572 359,576
Deposits and bank balances 85,261 104,752
Others 9,665 10,425
480,292 489,309
4. International Monetary Fund (IMF) Reserve Position, Holdings of Special Drawing Rights
(SDR) and Allocation of SDR
The reserve position comprises Malaysia’s paid-up portion of IMF Quota and loans granted by BNM
under the IMF’s Financial Transaction Plan (FTP), New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) and Poverty
Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT). These programmes are used by IMF to provide loans to its
member countries.
2025 2024
RM million RM million
IMF Reserve Position 5,264 5,440
Holdings of SDR 24,230 25,381
29,494 30,821
Allocation of SDR (26,830) (28,185)
Net position with IMF 2,664 2,636
5. Malaysian Government Papers
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Malaysian Government Securities 11,261 11,249
Malaysian Government Investment Certificates 2,159 1,556
13,420 12,805
6. Deposits with Financial Institutions
Refers to deposits placed by BNM with financial institutions under section 75(i) of the Central Bank
of Malaysia Act 2009.
7. Loans and Advances
Loans and advances include financing extended by BNM to participating financial institutions
under various funds established pursuant to section 49 of the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 to
promote financial inclusion.
184 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
2025 2024
RM million RM million
BNM’s Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises (SME)
Fund to promote growth and development for SME 6,803 5,655
Special Relief Facility for SME 19,432 18,206
PENJANA Tourism and Automation & Digitalisation 864 1,154
Financing for SME
Fund for Affordable Homes 975 975
Others 342 320
28,416 26,310
8. Property and Equipment
2025 Freehold Leasehold Buildings Buildings Motor Work-in- Total
Land Land on on Vehicles Progress
Freehold Leasehold
Land Land
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
As at 1 January 3,325,421 4,044 1,248,677 450,159 - - 5,028,301
- - - - 674 - 674
Effect of change in
accounting policy
Addition - - - - - 637 637
Disposal - (52) (859) (577) - - (1,488)
As at 31 December 3,325,421 3,992 1,247,818 449,582 674 637 5,028,124
Accumulated Depreciation
As at 1 January - 1,570 285,215 143,482 - - 430,267
- - - - 140 - 140
Effect of change in
accounting policy
Depreciation charge - 43 24,861 8,927 135 - 33,966
Disposal - (20) (345) (211) - - (576)
As at 31 December - 1,593 309,731 152,198 275 - 463,797
Net carrying
3,325,421 2,399 938,087 297,384 399 637 4,564,327
amount
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 185


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
2024 Freehold Leasehold Buildings Buildings Motor Work-in- Total
Land Land on on Vehicles Progress
Freehold Leasehold
Land Land
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
As at 1 January 3,327,144 5,514 1,225,523 450,159 - - 5,008,340
Addition - - 23,737 - - - 23,737
Disposal (1,723) (1,470) (583) - - - (3,776)
As at 31 December 3,325,421 4,044 1,248,677 450,159 - - 5,028,301
Accumulated Depreciation
As at 1 January - 2,567 260,772 134,553 - - 397,892
Depreciation charge - 43 24,700 8,929 - - 33,672
Disposal - (1,040) (257) - - - (1,297)
As at 31 December - 1,570 285,215 143,482 - - 430,267
Net carrying
3,325,421 2,474 963,462 306,677 - - 4,598,034
amount
9. Other Assets
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Reverse Repurchase Agreements 33,750 50,728
Investments in Shares
Subsidiaries 4,257 4,257
Associates 115 37
Other investments 275 95
Others 5,101 2,580
43,498 57,697
10. Deposits from Others
These deposits include deposit placement by other central banks and government agencies.
11. Bank Negara Papers
Bank Negara Papers are papers issued as part of BNM’s market operations tools to manage liquidity
in the domestic money market.
186 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
12. Other Liabilities
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Repurchase Agreements 1,746 1,104
Accruals 1,590 1,462
Others 416 555
3,752 3,121
13. Capital
BNM is wholly-owned by the Government of Malaysia.
14. General Reserve Fund
Appropriation of net profits to the General Reserve Fund is recognised upon the approval from the
Board of Directors and the Minister pursuant to section 7 of the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009.
There was no transfer to the General Reserve Fund during the financial year ended 31 December
2025 and 31 December 2024.
15. Risk Reserve
The Risk Reserve includes cumulative transfers of net profits, changes in fair value of financial assets
and foreign exchange differences arising from translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities.
2025 2024
RM million RM million
As at 1 January 147,896 151,251
Effect of change in accounting policy - 24
Movements during the year 7,414 (3,379)
As at 31 December 155,310 147,896
16. Unappropriated Profits
2025 2024
RM million RM million
As at 1 January 13,182 7,186
Less:
Transfer to Risk Reserve (7,932) (4,336)
Dividend paid to the Government (5,250) (2,850)
- -
Current year 12,447 13,162
Add:
Transfer of revaluation surplus arising from disposal of - 20
properties
As at 31 December 12,447 13,182
Upon approval from the Board of Directors and the Minister, the appropriation of profits will be
recognised in the financial statements of the next financial year.
The dividend paid to the Government for the financial year ended 2024, amounted to RM5.25 billion,
was approved by the Minister on 11 March 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 187


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
For the financial year ended 31 December 2025, the Board of Directors approved the transfer of
RM7.45 billion to the Risk Reserve and a dividend of RM5 billion to the Government.
17. Total Income
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Operating Income (a) 14,110 14,655
Loans and Advances Income (b) 36 33
Other Income (c) 199 290
14,345 14,978
(a) Operating Income
Includes interest, dividends, gains or losses on disposal of securities and net of monetary
operations cost.
(b) Loans and Advances Income
2025 2024
RM million RM million
BNM’s Fund for SMEs 18 16
Fund for Affordable Homes 10 10
Others 8 7
36 33
(c) Other Income
Includes income from currency processing and sales of commemorative banknotes and coins.
18. Recurring Expenditure
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Human Capital (a) (881) (879)
Currency Operations (b) (204) (195)
Information Technology (c) (170) (159)
Utilities and Maintenance (d) (174) (176)
Administrative and General (e) (243) (204)
Depreciation (f) (34) (34)
(1,706) (1,647)
(a) Human Capital
Includes salaries, allowances, staff medical costs and employer statutory contributions.
(b) Currency Operations
Expenditures incurred directly and indirectly in issuing the currency banknotes and coins.
(c) Information Technology
Expenditures incurred to maintain IT infrastructure and equipment, including renewal of
licences and purchase of IT consumables.
188 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
(d) Utilities and Maintenance
Expenditures relating to the upkeep of BNM’s office buildings and other premises.
(e) Administrative and General
Expenditures incurred in the administration of BNM’s day-to-day operations and other
expenses.
(f) Depreciation
Depreciation charges for leasehold land, buildings and motor vehicles.
19. Development Expenditure
Expenditures incurred mainly to finance developmental and long term initiatives in line with BNM’s
objects and functions.
20. Taxation
BNM is exempted from payment of income tax and supplementary income tax as set out in the
Income Tax (Exemption) (No. 7) Order 1989. Tax expenses relate to unclaimable withholding taxes on
dividend and interest income earned from the foreign investments and capital gains taxes on sale of
foreign investments.
21. Contingencies and Commitments
21.1 Contingent Assets
BNM has provided funding to International Centre for Leadership in Finance (ICLIF) Trust
Fund and International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF) Trust Fund to support
training, research and human capital development in banking and financial services, managed
by Asia School of Business (ASB) and INCEIF University, respectively. The funding will be
returned to BNM when ASB and INCEIF University become self-sufficient.
21.2 Legal Proceedings
A number of legal proceedings against BNM were outstanding as at 31 December 2025. For
litigation exposure where a loss is probable, an appropriate provision shall be made. Based on
available information as at 31 December 2025, the estimated contingent liability will not have
any material impact on BNM’s financial position and operations.
21.3 Commitments
Total outstanding commitments of BNM are as follows:
2025 2024
Note
RM million RM million
Membership with IMF (a)
Unpaid Quota (i) 14,967 15,769
New Arrangement to Borrow (ii) 3,778 3,969
Bilateral Borrowing Agreement (iii) 1,750 1,929
Swap Arrangements (b)
Bilateral Swap Currency Arrangement with Other Central (i) 154,866 170,704
Banks
Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation (ii) 36,971 40,745
Repurchase Agreement with Central Banks and Monetary (iii) 20,305 22,378
Authorities
Shareholding in Bank for International Settlements (c) 67 70
Total Outstanding Commitments 232,704 255,494
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 189


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
(a) Membership with IMF
(i) The Unpaid Quota represents the unpaid portion of Malaysia’s quota in the IMF under the
Articles of Agreement in which BNM has an obligation to pay to IMF in SDR or in other
convertible currencies.
(ii) The New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) is a multilateral credit arrangement between BNM
and the IMF to provide a supplementary source of financing to IMF for the purpose of
safeguarding the stability of the international monetary system.
(iii) The Bilateral Borrowing Agreement (BBA) involves bilateral contribution by BNM to the IMF
for precautionary and financial crisis resolution purposes.
(b) Swap Arrangements
(i) Bilateral Swap Arrangement (BSA)
BNM participates in BSAs with other central banks with the objective of promoting and
facilitating trade settlement and direct investment in local currency between the two
countries and providing liquidity support for short-term balance of payments. BNM
currently signed BSA with the People’s Bank of China, Bank of Korea, Bank Indonesia,
Bank of Japan and Bank of Thailand.
(ii) Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation Arrangement
BNM participates in the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation (CMIM) which aims to
provide financial support through currency swap transactions in US dollar or selected local
currencies to ASEAN+3 member countries to address balance of payments and short-term
liquidity difficulties in the region.
(iii) Repurchase Agreement with Central Banks and Monetary Authorities
BNM has entered into repurchase agreements with various central banks and monetary
authorities under the Executives’ Meeting of East Asia-Pacific Central Banks (EMEAP) to
provide liquidity assistance in times of emergency.
(c) Shareholding in Bank for International Settlements (BIS)
This represents the uncalled portion of BIS shares.
22. Financial Risk Management
The Reserve Management Committee oversees the assessment, measurement and control of the
investment risks in the management of reserves to be within acceptable levels. This is to ensure that
the objectives of capital preservation, liquidity and reasonable returns are met. In undertaking this
function, the major risks of the investments are:
(a) Market Risk
Market risk is the exposure of BNM’s investments to adverse movements in market prices
related to foreign exchange rates, interest rates and prices of bonds and equities. Market risk
is assessed and monitored on a daily basis. A benchmark policy approved by the Board of
Directors reflects the long-term objectives and acceptable risk-return profile of the investments.
Investments may be made in instruments that are different from those in the benchmark. This
deviation in investment is controlled through a set of risk management limits, governance
arrangements and investment guidelines that are also approved by the Board of Directors.
190 ANNUAL REPORT 2025


OUR FINANCES
BANK NEGARA MALAYSIA
(b) Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of default of the debt issuer or failure of the counterparty to perform its
contractual obligation to BNM resulting in BNM not receiving its principal and/or interest that
has fallen due. A comprehensive credit risk framework governs the permissible investments
and the risk appetite of BNM. The framework, which is approved by the Board of Directors,
also incorporates market-based indicators and quantitative measures which supports a more
forward-looking credit assessment.
(c) Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk of financial losses due to failed internal processes, inadequate
controls and procedures, or any other internal or external events that impede operations.
Operational risk is mitigated through a risk governance framework and effective implementation
of risk controls and limits. A comprehensive operational risk surveillance mechanism is in place
to support the identification of emerging risks in BNM’s operations to allow for action to be
taken in managing gaps and in mitigating financial losses.
23. Bank Negara Malaysia Staff Welfare Account (Medical Fund) (termed as the ‘Medical Fund
Account’)
The Medical Fund Account was established on 21 June 2006 under section 15(6) of the Central
Bank of Malaysia Act 1958 and continue to exist under section 83(4) and (5) of the Central Bank of
Malaysia Act 2009.
The Medical Fund Account is governed under the Bank Negara Malaysia Staff Welfare Account
(Medical Fund) Trust Directions 2006 and Supplementary Trust Directions 2017. The objective
of the Medical Fund is to assist BNM to meet the medical expenses of eligible retirees and their
dependents. As stipulated in the Bank Negara Malaysia Staff Welfare Account (Medical Fund) Trust
Directions 2006, the Medical Fund shall be administered by a Medical Fund Committee. The Medical
Fund Account is to be maintained separately and shall be audited in the same manner as BNM’s
Account.
24. Related Party Transactions and Balances
Government of Malaysia
BNM is wholly-owned by the Government of Malaysia. BNM funds its own operations and maintains
organisational and functional independence from the Government. In the normal course of its
operations, BNM enters into transactions with related parties and significant balances are presented
in these financial statements.
Significant Related Party Balances
2025 2024
RM million RM million
Shareholder
Government of Malaysia
Holdings of Malaysian Government Papers 13,420 12,805
Deposit placements from the Government 4,504 5,233
25. Approval of Financial Statements
The Board of Directors approved the annual financial statements on 25 February 2026.
ANNUAL REPORT 2025 191