_____________
ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED
TEXT OF REPRINT
_____________
Act 265
EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955
As at 30 April 2012


EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955
First enacted … … … … 1955 (F.M. Ordinance
No. 38 of 1955)
Revised … … … … 1981 (Act 265 w.e.f.
18 February 1982)
Latest amendment made by
P.U. (A) 88/2012 which
came into operation on … … 1 April 2012
PREVIOUS REPRINTS
First Reprint … … … 1975
Second Reprint … … … 2001
Third Reprint … … … 2006


Act 265
EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY
Section
1. Short title and application
2. Interpretation
2A. Minister may prohibit employment other than under contract of service
2B. General power to exempt or exclude
3. Appointment of officers
4. Appeals
5. Effect on Act of other written laws
PART II
CONTRACTS OF SERVICE
6. Saving of existing contracts
7. More favourable conditions of service under the Act to prevail
7A. Validity of any term or condition of service which is more favourable
7B. Removal of doubt in respect of matters not provided for by or under this Act
8. Contracts of service not to restrict rights of employees to join, participate in
or organize trade unions


Section
9. (Deleted)
10. Contracts to be in writing and to include provision for termination
11. Provision as to termination of contracts
12. Notice of termination of contract
13. Termination of contract without notice
14. Termination of contract for special reasons
15. When contract is deemed to be broken by employer and employee
16. Employees on estates to be provided with minimum number of days’ work
in each month
17. (Omitted)
17A. Apprenticeship contracts excluded from sections 10 to 16
PART III
PAYMENT OF WAGES
18. Wage period
19. Time of payment of wages
20. Payment on normal termination of contract
21. Payment on termination of contract in special circumstances and on breach
of contract
22. Limitation on advances to employees
23. Wages not due for absence from work through imprisonment or attendance
in court
PART IV
DEDUCTIONS FROM WAGES
24. Lawful deductions


Employment 5
PART V
SYSTEM OF PAYMENT OF WAGES
Section
25. Wages to be paid through bank
25A. Payment of wages other than through bank
26. Conditions restricting place at which, manner in which and person with
whom wages paid to be spent, illegal
27. Interest on advances forbidden
28. Restriction on places at which wages may be paid
29. Remuneration other than wages
30. (Deleted)
PART VI
PRIORITY OF WAGES
31. Priority of wages over other debts
32. Reference by the court to Director General
PART VII
CONTRACTORS, PRINCIPALS AND CONTRACTORS FOR LABOUR
33. Liability of principals and contractors for wages
33A. Information relating to supply of employees
PART VIII
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN
34. Prohibition of night work
35. Prohibition of underground work
36. Prohibition of employment by Minister


PART IX
MATERNITY PROTECTION
Section
37. Length of eligible period and entitlement to maternity allowance
38. Payment of maternity allowance
39. Payment of allowance to nominee on death of female employee
40. Loss of maternity allowance for failure to notify employer
41. Payment of allowance to nominee
42. Restriction on dismissal of female employee after eligible period
43. Conditions contrary to Part void
44. Register of allowances paid
44A. Application of this Part irrespective of wages of female employee
PART X
EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS
45-56. (Deleted)
PART XI
DOMESTIC SERVANTS
57. Termination of contract
57A. Employment of foreign domestic servant
57B. Duty to inform Director General of termination of service of foreign
domestic servant
PART XII
REST DAYS, HOURS OF WORK, HOLIDAYS AND OTHER CONDITIONS
OF SERVICE
58. (Omitted)
58A. Non-application of Part XII
59. Rest day
60. Work on rest day


Employment 7
Section
60A. Hours of work
60B. Task work
60C. Shift work
60D. Holidays
60E. Annual leave
60F. Sick leave
60G. (Omitted)
60H. (Omitted)
60I. Interpretation
PART XIIA
TERMINATION, LAY-OFF, AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS
60J. Termination, lay-off and retirement benefits
PART XIIB
EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN EMPLOYEES
60K. Duty to furnish information and returns
60L. Director General may inquire into complaint
60M. Prohibition on termination of local for foreign employee
60N. Termination of employment by reason of redundancy
60O. Permanent resident exempted from this Part
PART XIII
REGISTERS, RETURNS AND NOTICE BOARDS
61. Duty to keep registers
62. Power to make regulations requiring information as to wages
63. Duty to submit returns
63A. Duty to give notice and other information
64. Duty to display notice boards


PART XIV
INSPECTION
Section
65. Powers of inspection and inquiry
66. Inspecting officer to notify presence
67. Powers of inspecting officers
68. Officers to be authorized by the Director General
PART XV
COMPLAINTS AND INQUIRIES
69. Director General’s power to inquire into complaints
69A. Limitation on power conferred by section 69
69B. Additional powers of Director General to inquire into complaints
69C. Claims for indemnity for termination of contract without notice
69D. Order of Director General may be in writing
69E. Penalty for offence
70. Procedure in Director General’s inquiry
71. Director General’s record of inquiry
72. Joinder of several complaints in one complaint
73. Prohibitory order by Director General to third party
74. No fees for summons: service of summons
75. Enforcement of Director General’s order by Sessions Court
76. Submission by Director General to High Court on point of law
77. Appeal against Director General’s order to High Court
78. Employee’s remedy when employer about to abscond
79. Powers of Director General to investigate possible offences under this Act
80. Examination on summons by the Director General
81. Right of employee to appear before the Director General


Employment 9
PART XVA
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Section
81A. Interpretation
81B. Inquiry into complaints of sexual harassment
81C. Findings of inquiry by employer
81D. Complaints of sexual harassment made to the Director General
81E. Effects of decisions of the Director General
81F. Offence
81G. Application of this Part irrespective of wages of employee
PART XVI
PROCEDURE
82. Service of summons issued under Part XV
83. Power to make reciprocal provisions between Malaysia and Singapore for
the service, execution and enforcement of summonses, warrants and orders
84. Jurisdiction
85. Prosecution
85A. Right of audience
86. Saving clause as to civil jurisdiction of courts
87. Power of court imposing fine
88. Effect of imprisonment
89. Incapacity of Director General hearing inquiry
90. Officers acting under Act deemed public servants
90A. Protection of officers
PART XVII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
91. Under Parts III and IV
92. Under Part V


Section
93. Under Part VIII
94. Under Part IX
95. (Deleted)
96. (Deleted)
97. Under Part XIII
98. Under Part XIV
99. Under Part XV
99A. General Penalty
100. Penalties for failure or non-compliance in relation to rest days, overtime,
holidays, annual leave, and sick leave
101. Offence in connection with inquiry or inspection
101A. Power to compound offences
101B. Offence by body corporate, etc.
PART XVIII
REGULATIONS
102. Regulations
PART XIX
REPEAL AND SAVING
103. Repeal and saving
FIRST SCHEDULE
SECOND SCHEDULE


Act 265
EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955
An Act relating to employment.
[Peninsular Malaysia─ 1 June 1957, L.N. 228/1957;
Federal Territory of Labuan─ 1 November 2000,
P.U. (A) 400/2000]
P I
ART
PRELIMINARY
Short title and application
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Employment Act 1955.
(2) This Act shall apply to *Peninsular Malaysia only.
Interpretation
2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
―agricultural undertaking‖ means any work in which any employee
is employed under a contract of service for the purposes of
agriculture, horticulture or silviculture, the tending of domestic
animals and poultry or the collection of the produce of any plants or
trees;
*NOTE—This Act has been extended to the Federal Territory of Labuan–see subsection 1(2) of the
Federal Territory of Labuan (Extension and Modification of Employment Act) Order 2000 [P.U. (A)
400/2000] w.e.f. 1 November 2000.


―apprenticeship contract‖ means a written contract entered into by a
person with an employer who undertakes to employ the person and
train or have him trained systematically for a trade for a specified
period which shall not be less than two years in the course of which
the apprentice is bound to work in the employer’s service;
―approved amenity or approved service‖ means any amenity or
service—
(a) approved by the Director General under subsection 29(2) on
application made to him by an employer for its inclusion in a
contract of service; or
(b) provided for in any award made by the Industrial Court or in
any collective agreement;
―approved incentive payment scheme‖ means an incentive
payment scheme approved by the Director General under, and for the
purposes of, section 60I;
―collective agreement‖ has the same meaning assigned thereto in
the Industrial Relations Act 1967 [Act 177];
―confinement‖ means parturition resulting after at least twenty-two
weeks of pregnancy in the issue of a child or children, whether alive
or dead, and shall for the purposes of this Act commence and end on
the actual day of birth and where two or more children are born at
one confinement shall commence and end on the day of the birth of
the last-born of such children, and the word ―confined‖ shall be
construed accordingly;
―constructional contractor‖ means any person, firm, corporation or
company who or which is established for the purpose of undertaking,
either exclusively or in addition to or in conjunction with any other
business, any type of constructional work, and who or which is
carrying out such constructional work for or on behalf of some other
person under a contract entered into by him or them with such other
person, and includes his or their heirs, executors, administrators,
assignees and successors;


Employment 13
―constructional work‖ includes the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance, repair, alteration or demolition of any building, railway,
harbour, dock, pier, canal, inland waterway, road, tunnel, bridge,
viaduct, sewer, drain, well, dredge, wireless, telegraphic or telephonic
installation, electrical undertaking, gaswork, waterwork or other work
of construction, as well as the preparation for, or the laying of, the
foundations of any such work or structure, and also any earthworks
both in excavation and in filling;
―contract of service‖ means any agreement, whether oral or in
writing and whether express or implied, whereby one person agrees
to employ another as an employee and that other agrees to serve his
employer as an employee and includes an apprenticeship contract;
―contractor‖ means any person who contracts with a principal to
carry out the whole or any part of any work undertaken by the
principal in the course of or for the purposes of the principal’s trade
or business;
―contractor for labour‖ means a person who contracts with a
principal, contractor or sub-contractor to supply the labour required
for the execution of the whole or any part of any work which a
contractor or sub-contractor has contracted to carry out for a principal
or contractor, as the case may be;
―day‖ means—
(a) a continuous period of twenty-four hours beginning at
midnight; or
(b) for the purposes of Part XII in respect of an employee
engaged in shift work or in work where the normal hours of
work extend beyond midnight, a continuous period of
twenty-four hours beginning at any point of time;
―Director General‖ means the Director General of Labour
appointed under subsection 3(1);
―domestic servant‖ means a person employed in connection with
the work of a private dwelling-house and not in connection with any


trade, business, or profession carried on by the employer in such
dwelling-house and includes a cook, house-servant, butler, child’s
nurse, valet, footman, gardener, washerman or washerwoman,
watchman, groom and driver or cleaner of any vehicle licensed for
private use;
―employee‖ means any person or class of persons—
(a) included in any category in the First Schedule to the extent
specified therein; or
(b) in respect of whom the Minister makes an order under
subsection (3) or section 2 ;
A
―foreign domestic servant‖ means a domestic servant who is not a
citizen or a permanent resident;
―employer‖ means any person who has entered into a contract of
service to employ any other person as an employee and includes the
agent, manager or factor of such first mentioned person, and the word
―employ‖, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,
shall be construed accordingly;
―foreign employee‖ means an employee who is not a citizen;
―Industrial Court‖ has the same meaning assigned thereto in the
Industrial Relations Act 1967;
―industrial undertaking‖ includes—
(a) disturbing, removing, carting, carrying, washing, sifting,
melting, refining, crushing or otherwise dealing with any
rock, stone, gravel, clay, sand, soil, night-soil or mineral by
any mode or method whatever;
(b) industries in which articles are manufactured, altered,
cleaned, repaired, ornamented, finished, adapted for sale,
packed or otherwise prepared for delivery, broken up, or
demolished, or in which materials are transformed or
minerals treated, including shipbuilding and the generation,


Employment 15
transformation and transmission of electricity or motive
power of any kind;
(c) constructional work;
(d) transport of passengers or goods by road, rail, water or air,
including the handling of goods at docks, quays, wharves,
warehouses or airports;
(e) any industry, establishment or undertaking, or any activity,
service or work, declared under subsection (5) to be an
industrial undertaking;
―intoxicating liquor‖ has the same meaning as that assigned to
―intoxicating liquor‖ under section 2 of the Customs Act 1967 [Act
235];
―machinery‖ has the same meaning as in the Factories and
Machinery Act 1967 [Act 139];
―medical officer‖ means a registered medical practitioner who is
employed in a medical capacity by the Federal Government, or by the
Government of a State;
―Minister‖ means the Minister charged with the responsibility for
human resources;
―part-time employee‖ means a person included in the First
Schedule whose average hours of work per week as agreed between
him and his employer are more than thirty per centum but do not
exceed seventy per centum of the normal hours of work per week of a
full-time employee employed in a similar capacity in the same
enterprise;
―Peninsular Malaysia‖ has the meaning assigned thereto by section
3 of the Interpretation Acts 1948 and 1967 [Act 388], and includes the
Federal Territory;
―permanent resident‖ means a person, not being a citizen, who is
permitted to reside in Malaysia without any limit of time imposed


under any law relating to immigration, or who is certified by the
Federal Government to be treated as such in Malaysia;
―place of employment‖ means any place where work is carried on
for an employer by an employee;
―principal‖ means any person who in the course of or for the
purposes of his trade or business contracts with a contractor for the
execution by or under the contractor of the whole or any part of any
work undertaken by the principal;
―registered medical practitioner‖ means a medical practitioner
registered under the Medical Act 1971 [Act 50];
―sexual harassment‖ means any unwanted conduct of a sexual
nature, whether verbal, non-verbal, visual, gestural or physical,
directed at a person which is offensive or humiliating or is a threat to
his well-being, arising out of and in the course of his employment;
―shift work‖ means work which by reason of its nature requires to
be carried on continuously or continually, as the case may be, by two
or more shifts;
―spread over period of ten hours‖ means a period of ten consecutive
hours to be reckoned from the time the employee commences work
for the day, inclusive of any period or periods of leisure, rest or break
within such period of ten consecutive hours;
―sub-contractor‖ means any person who contracts with a contractor
for the execution by or under the sub-contractor of the whole or any
part of any work undertaken by the contractor for his principal, and
includes any person who contracts with a sub-contractor to carry out
the whole or any part of any work undertaken by the sub-contractor
for a contractor;
―underground working‖ means any undertaking in which operations
are conducted for the purpose of extracting any substance from below
the surface of the earth, the ingress to and egress from which is by
means of shafts, adits or natural caves;


Employment 17
―wage period‖ means the period in respect of which wages earned
by an employee are payable;
―wages‖ means basic wages and all other payments in cash payable
to an employee for work done in respect of his contract of service but
does not include—
(a) the value of any house accommodation or the supply of any
food, fuel, light or water or medical attendance, or of any
approved amenity or approved service;
(b) any contribution paid by the employer on his own account
to any pension fund, provident fund, superannuation
scheme, retrenchment, termination, lay-off or retirement
scheme, thrift scheme or any other fund or scheme
established for the benefit or welfare of the employee;
(c) any travelling allowance or the value of any traveling
concession;
(d) any sum payable to the employee to defray special expenses
entailed on him by the nature of his employment;
(e) any gratuity payable on discharge or retirement; or
(f) any annual bonus or any part of any annual bonus;
―week‖ means a continuous period of seven days;
―year of age‖ means a year from the date of a person’s birth.
(2) The Minister may by order amend the First Schedule.
(3) The Minister may by order declare such provisions of this
Act and any other written law as may be specified in the order to be
applicable to any person or class of persons employed, engaged or
contracted with to carry out work in any occupation in any
agricultural or industrial undertaking, constructional work, statutory
body, local government authority, trade, business or place of work,
and upon the coming into force of any such order—


(a) any person or class of persons specified in the order shall be
deemed to be an employee or employees;
(b) the person, statutory body or local government authority
employing, engaging or contracting with every such person
or class of persons shall be deemed to be an employer;
(c) the employer and the employee shall be deemed to have
entered into a contract of service with one another;
(d) the place where such employee carries on work for his
employer shall be deemed to be a place of employment; and
(e) the remuneration of such employee shall be deemed to be
wages,
for the purposes of such specified provisions of this Act and any
other written law.
(4) The Minister may make regulations in respect of the terms
and conditions upon which the person or class of persons specified
pursuant to subsection (3) may be employed.
(4A) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the Minister
may make regulations—
(a) in respect of the terms and conditions of service of a
part-time employee; and
(b) prescribing the manner in which the hours of work of an
employee are to be computed for the purposes of
determining whether that employee falls within the
definition of a ―part-time employee‖.
(5) The Minister may, from time to time, by notification
published in the Gazette, declare any particular industry,
establishment or undertaking, or any class, category or description of
industries, establishments or undertakings or any particular activity,
service or work, or any class, category or description of activities,


Employment 19
services or works, to be an industrial undertaking for the purposes of
this Act.
Minister may prohibit employment other than under contract of
service
2A. (1) The Minister may by order prohibit the employment,
engagement or contracting of any person or class of persons to carry
out work in any occupation in any agricultural or industrial
undertaking, constructional work, statutory body, local government
authority, trade, business or place of work other than under a contract
of service entered into with—
(a) the principal or owner of that agricultural or industrial
undertaking, constructional work, trade, business or place of
work; or
(b) that statutory body or that authority.
(2) Upon the coming into force of any such order, the person or
class of persons employed, engaged or contracted with to carry out
the work shall be deemed to be an employee or employees and—
(a) the principal or owner of the agricultural or industrial
undertaking, constructional work, trade, business or place of
work; or
(b) the statutory body or local government authority,
shall be deemed to be the employer for the purposes of such
provisions of this Act and any other written law as may be specified
in the order.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Minister may by order
approve the employment of any person or class of persons by such
other person or class of persons (not being the principal or owner) as
he may specify but subject to such conditions as he may deem fit to
impose.


(4) Any person who contravenes any order made under this
section commits an offence.
General power to exempt or exclude
2B. The Minister may by order exempt or exclude, subject to such
conditions as he may deem fit to impose, any person or class of
persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act.
Appointment of officers
3. (1) The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may appoint an officer to be
styled the Director General of Labour, in this Act referred to as ―the
Director General‖.
(2) The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may appoint, to such number
as he considers necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Act,
officers of the following categories, that is to say—
(a) Deputy Directors General of Labour;
(b) Directors of Labour, Deputy Directors of Labour, Senior
Assistant Directors of Labour and Assistant Directors of
Labour; and
(c) Labour Officers.
(3) Subject to such limitations, if any, as may be prescribed by
regulations made under this Act, any officer appointed under
subsection (2) shall perform all the duties imposed and may exercise
all the powers conferred upon the Director General by this Act, and
every duty so performed and power so exercised shall be deemed to
have been duly performed and exercised for the purposes of this Act.


Employment 21
Appeals
4. Any person affected by any decision or order, other than an order
or decision under section 69, 69 , 69 , 73 or subsection 81 (4), given
B C D
or made by an officer appointed under subsection 3(2), may, if he is
dissatisfied with such decision or order, within fourteen days of such
decision or order being communicated to him appeal in writing
therefrom to the Director General.
Effect on Act of other written laws
5. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as relieving any person who
has entered into a contract of service, either as the employer or as the
person employed, of any duty or liability imposed upon him by the
provisions of any other written law for the time being in force in
Malaysia or any part thereof or to limit any power which may be
exercised by any public officer or any right conferred upon any such
person as aforesaid under or by virtue of any such written law.
PART II
CONTRACTS OF SERVICE
Saving of existing contracts
6. Every agreement lawfully entered into between an employer and
an employee before the coming into force of this Act shall if it is still
legally binding upon the parties continue in force for such period as
may be specified in the agreement and the parties thereto shall be
subject to, and shall be entitled to the benefits of, this Act.
More favourable conditions of service under the Act to prevail
7. Subject to section 7A, any term or condition of a contract of
service or of an agreement, whether such contract or agreement was
entered into before or after the coming into force of this Act, which
provides a term or condition of service which is less favourable to an


employee than a term or condition of service prescribed by this Act
or any regulations, order or other subsidiary legislation whatsoever
made thereunder shall be void and of no effect to that extent and the
more favourable provisions of this Act or any regulations, order or
other subsidiary legislation whatsoever made thereunder shall be
substituted therefore.
Validity of any term or condition of service which is more
favourable
7A. Subject to any express prohibition under this Act or any
regulations, order or other subsidiary legislation whatsoever made
thereunder, nothing in section 7 shall be construed as preventing an
employer and an employee from agreeing to any term or condition of
service under which an employee is employed, or shall render invalid
any term or condition of service stipulated in any collective
agreement or in any award of the Industrial Court, which is more
favourable to the employee than the provisions of this Act or any
regulations, order, or other subsidiary legislation whatsoever made
thereunder.
Removal of doubt in respect of matters not provided for by or
under this Act
7B. For the removal of doubt it is hereby declared that if no provision
is made in respect of any matter under this Act or any subsidiary
legislation made thereunder, or if no regulations, order or other
subsidiary legislation has been made on any matter in respect of
which regulations, or an order or other subsidiary legislation may be
made under this Act, it shall not be construed as preventing such
matter from being provided for in a contract of service, or from being
negotiated upon between an employer and an employee.


Employment 23
Contracts of service not to restrict rights of employees to join,
participate in or organize trade unions
8. Nothing in any contract of service shall in any manner restrict the
right of any employee who is a party to such contract—
(a) to join a registered trade union;
(b) to participate in the activities of a registered trade union,
whether as an officer of such union or otherwise; or
(c) to associate with any other persons for the purpose of
organizing a trade union in accordance with the Trade
Unions Act 1959 [Act 262].
9. (Deleted by *Act 40 of 1966).
Contracts to be in writing and to include provision for
termination
10. (1) A contract of service for a specified period of time exceeding
one month or for the performance of a specified piece of work, where
the time reasonably required for the completion of the work exceeds
or may exceed one month, shall be in writing.
(2) In every written contract of service a clause shall be
included setting out the manner in which such contract may be
terminated by either party in accordance with this Part.
Provision as to termination of contracts
11. (1) A contract of service for a specified period of time or for the
performance of a specified piece of work shall, unless otherwise
terminated in accordance with this Part, terminate when the period of
time for which such contract was made has expired or when the piece
of work specified in such contract has been completed.
*NOTE—The Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [Act 40 of 1966] has since been
revised as the Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [Act 350].


(2) A contract of service for an unspecified period of time shall
continue in force until terminated in accordance with this Part.
Notice of termination of contract
12. (1) Either party to a contract of service may at any time give to
the other party notice of his intention to terminate such contract of
service.
(2) The length of such notice shall be the same for both
employer and employee and shall be determined by a provision made
in writing for such notice in the terms of the contract of service, or, in
the absence of such provision in writing, shall not be less than—
(a) four weeks’ notice if the employee has been so employed
for less than two years on the date on which the notice is
given;
(b) six weeks’ notice if he has been so employed for two years
or more but less than five years on such date;
(c) eight weeks’ notice if he has been so employed for five
years or more on such date:
Provided that this section shall not be taken to prevent either
party from waiving his right to a notice under this subsection.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2),
where the termination of service of the employee is attributable
wholly or mainly to the fact that—
(a) the employer has ceased, or intends to cease to carry on the
business for the purposes of which the employee was
employed;
(b) the employer has ceased or intends to cease to carry on the
business in the place at which the employee was contracted
to work;


Employment 25
(c) the requirements of that business for the employee to carry
out work of a particular kind have ceased or diminished or
are expected to cease or diminish;
(d) the requirements of that business for the employee to carry
out work of a particular kind in the place at which he was
contracted to work have ceased or diminished or are
expected to cease or diminish;
(e) the employee has refused to accept his transfer to any other
place of employment, unless his contract of service requires
him to accept such transfer; or
(f) a change has occurred in the ownership of the business for
the purpose of which an employee is employed or of a part
of such business, regardless of whether the change occurs
by virtue of a sale or other disposition or by operation of
law,
the employee shall be entitled to, and the employer shall give to the
employee, notice of termination of service, and the length of such
notice shall be not less than that provided under paragraph (2)(a), (b)
or (c), as the case may be, regardless of anything to the contrary
contained in the contract of service.
(4) Such notice shall be written and may be given at any time,
and the day on which the notice is given shall be included in the
period of the notice.
Termination of contract without notice
13. (1) Either party to a contract of service may terminate such
contract of service without notice or, if notice has already been given
in accordance with section 12, without waiting for the expiry of that
notice, by paying to the other party an indemnity of a sum equal to
the amount of wages which would have accrued to the employee
during the term of such notice or during the unexpired term of such
notice.


(2) Either party to a contract of service may terminate such
contract of service without notice in the event of any wilful breach by
the other party of a condition of the contract of service.
Termination of contract for special reasons
14. (1) An employer may, on the grounds of misconduct inconsistent
with the fulfilment of the express or implied conditions of his service,
after due inquiry—
(a) dismiss without notice the employee;
(b) downgrade the employee; or
(c) impose any other lesser punishment as he deems just and fit,
and where a punishment of suspension without wages is
imposed, it shall not exceed a period of two weeks.
(2) For the purposes of an inquiry under subsection (1), the
employer may suspend the employee from work for a period not
exceeding two weeks but shall pay him not less than half his wages
for such period:
Provided that if the inquiry does not disclose any misconduct on
the part of the employee the employer shall forthwith restore to the
employee the full amount of wages so withheld.
(3) An employee may terminate his contract of service with his
employer without notice where he or his dependants are immediately
threatened by danger to the person by violence or disease such as
such employee did not by his contract of service undertake to run.
When contract is deemed to be broken by employer and
employee
15. (1) An employer shall be deemed to have broken his contract of
service with the employee if he fails to pay wages in accordance with
Part III.


Employment 27
(2) An employee shall be deemed to have broken his contract of
service with the employer if he has been continuously absent from
work for more than two consecutive working days without prior leave
from his employer, unless he has a reasonable excuse for such
absence and has informed or attempted to inform his employer of
such excuse prior to or at the earliest opportunity during such
absence.
Employees on estates to be provided with minimum number of
days’ work in each month
16. (1) Where an employee is employed in any agricultural
undertaking on an estate on a contract of service under which he
earns wages calculated by reference to the number of days’ work
performed in each month of his service, his employer shall be bound
either to provide him with work suitable to his capacity on not less
than twenty-four days in each month during the whole of which he is
so employed, or if the employer is unable or fails to provide work on
twenty-four days in each month whereon the employee is willing and
fit to work, the employer shall nevertheless be bound to pay to the
employee in respect of each of such days wages at the same rate as if
such employee had performed a day’s work:
Provided that any dispute as to whether an employee was willing
or fit to work shall be referred to the Director General for his
decision:
Provided further that in computing twenty-four days for the
purposes of this subsection account shall not be taken of more than
six days in any week.
(2) A contract of service shall be deemed to be broken by an
employer if he fails to provide work or pay wages in accordance with
subsection (1).
17. (Omitted).


Apprenticeship contracts excluded from sections 10 to 16
17A. Sections 10 to 16 shall not apply to apprenticeship contracts
which are in a form approved by and of which a copy has been filed
with the Director General.
PART III
PAYMENT OF WAGES
Wage period
18. (1) A contract of service shall specify a wage period not
exceeding one month.
(2) If in any contract of service no wage period is specified the
wage period shall for the purposes of the contract be deemed to be
one month.
Time of payment of wages
19. (1) Subject to subsection (2), every employer shall pay to each of
his employees not later than the seventh day after the last day of any
wage period the wages, less lawful deductions earned by such
employee during such wage period.
(2) Wages for work done on a rest day, gazetted public holiday
referred to in paragraphs 60 (1)(a) and (b) and overtime referred to in
D
section 60 shall be paid not later than the last day of the next wage
A
period.
(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), if the Director
General is satisfied that payment within such time is not reasonably
practicable, he may, on the application of the employer, extend the
time of payment by such number of days as he thinks fit.


Employment 29
Payment on normal termination of contract
20. The wages, less lawful deductions, earned by but not yet paid to
an employee whose contract of service terminates in accordance with
subsection 11(1) or of section 12 shall be paid to such employee not
later than the day on which such contract of service so terminates.
Payment on termination of contract in special circumstances and
on breach of contract
21. (1) Where an employer terminates the contract of service of an
employee without notice in accordance with subsection 13(1) or (2)
and paragraph 14(1)(a)—
(a) the wages, less any deductions which the employer is
entitled to make under section 24, earned by such employee
up to and including the day immediately preceding the day
on which the termination of the contract of service takes
effect; and
(b) in addition, where the employer terminates the contract of
service under subsection 13(1), the indemnity payable to the
employee under that subsection,
shall be paid by the employer to the employee not later than the day
on which such contract of service is so terminated.
(2) Where an employee terminates his contract of service with an
employer without notice in accordance with subsection 13(1) or (2)
or subsection 14(3), the wages, less any deductions which the
employer is entitled to make under section 24, earned by such
employee up to and including the day immediately preceding the day
on which the termination of the contract of service takes effect shall
be paid by the employer to the employee not later than the third day
after the day on which the contract of service is so terminated.


Limitation on advances to employees
22. (1) No employer shall during any one month make to an
employee an advance or advances of wages not already earned by
such employee which exceeds in the aggregate the amount of wages
which the employee earned in the preceding month from his
employment with such employer, or if he has not been so long in the
employment of such employer, the amount which he is likely to earn
in such employment during one month, unless such advance is made
to the employee—
(a) to enable him to purchase a house or to build or improve a
house;
(b) to enable him to purchase land;
(c) (Deleted by Act A1419);
(d) to enable him to purchase a motorcar, a motorcycle or a
bicycle;
(da) to enable him to purchase shares of the employer’s business
offered for sale by the employer;
(db) to enable him to purchase a computer;
(dc) to enable him to pay for medical expenses for himself or his
immediate family members;
(dd) to enable him to pay for daily expenses pending receipt of
any periodical payments for temporary disablement under
the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 [Act 4];
(de) to enable him to pay for educational expenses for himself or
his immediate family members;
(e) for any other purpose—
(i) in respect of which an application in writing is made
by the employer to the Director General;


Employment 31
(ii) which is, in the opinion of the Director General,
beneficial to the employee; and
(iii) which is approved in writing by the Director General,
provided that in granting such approval, the Director
General may make such modifications thereto or
impose such conditions thereon as he may deem
proper;
(f) for such other purpose as the Minister may, from time to
time, by notification in the Gazette, specify either generally
in respect of all employees, or only in respect of any
particular employee, or any class, category or description of
employees.
(2) For the purposes of this section, ―immediate family members‖
means the employees’ parents, children, siblings or any other person
under the employee’s guardianship.
Wages not due for absence from work through imprisonment or
attendance in court
23. Wages shall not become payable to or recoverable by any
employee from his employer for or on account of the term of any
sentence of imprisonment undergone by him or for any period spent
by him in custody or for or on account of any period spent by him in
going to or returning from prison or other place of custody or for or
on account of any period spent by him in going to, attending before
or returning from a court otherwise than as a witness on his
employer’s behalf.


PART IV
DEDUCTIONS FROM WAGES
Lawful deductions
24. (1) No deductions shall be made by an employer from the wages
of an employee otherwise than in accordance with this Act.
(2) It shall be lawful for an employer to make the following
deductions—
(a) deductions to the extent of any overpayment of wages made
during the immediately preceding three months from the
month in which deductions are to be made, by the employer
to the employee by the employer’s mistake;
(b) deductions for the indemnity due to the employer by the
employee under subsection 13(1);
(c) deductions for the recovery of advances of wages made
under section 22 provided no interest is charged on the
advances; and
(d) deductions authorized by any other written law.
(3) The following deductions shall only be made at the request in
writing of the employee—
(a) deductions in respect of the payments to a registered trade
union or co-operative thrift and loan society of any sum of
money due to the trade union or society by the employee on
account of entrance fees, subscriptions, instalments and
interest on loans, or other dues; and
(b) deductions in respect of payments for any shares of the
employer’s business offered for sale by the employer and
purchased by the employee.


Employment 33
(4) The following deductions shall not be made except at the
request in writing of the employee and with the prior permission in
writing of the Director General:
(a) deductions in respect of payments into any superannuation
scheme, provident fund, employer’s welfare scheme or
insurance scheme established for the benefit of the
employee;
(b) deductions in respect of repayments of advances of wages
made to an employee under section 22 where interest is
levied on the advances and deductions in respect of the
payments of the interest so levied;
(c) deductions in respect of payments to a third party on behalf
of the employee;
(d) deductions in respect of payments for the purchase by the
employee of any goods of the employer’s business offered
for sale by the employer; and
(e) deductions in respect of the rental for accommodation and
the cost of services, food and meals provided by the
employer to the employee at the employee’s request or
under the terms of the employee’s contract of service.
(5) The Director General shall not permit any deduction for
payments under paragraph (4)(e) unless he is satisfied that the
provision of the accommodation, services, food or meals is for the
benefit of the employee.
(6) Where an employee obtains foodstuff, provisions or other
goods on credit from a shop the business of which is carried on by a
co-operative society registered under the Co-operative Societies Act
1993 [Act 502], it shall be lawful for his employer, at the request in
writing of the employee and with the agreement of the manager of the
co-operative shop, to make deductions from the wages of the
employee of an amount not exceeding the amount of the credit and to
pay the amount so deducted to the manager in satisfaction of the
employee’s debt.


(7) Notwithstanding subsections (2), (3), (4) and (6) the Director
General, on an application by an employer or a specified class or
classes of employers, may permit any deduction for a specified
purpose from the wages of an employee or a specified class or classes
of employees subject to such conditions as he may deem fit to
impose.
(8) The total of any amounts deducted under this section from the
wages of an employee in respect of any one month shall not exceed
fifty per centum of the wages earned by that employee in that month.
(9) The limitation in subsection (8) shall not apply to—
(a) deductions from the indemnity payable by an employer to
an employee under subsection 13(1);
(b) deductions from the final payment of the wages of an
employee for any amount due to the employer and
remaining unpaid by the employee on the termination of the
employee’s contract of service; and
(c) deductions for the repayment of a housing loan which,
subject to the prior permission in writing of the Director
General, may exceed the fifty per centum limit by an
additional amount of not more than twenty-five per centum
of the wages earned.
PART V
SYSTEM OF PAYMENT OF WAGES
Wages to be paid through bank
25. (1) The entire amount of wages earned by, or payable to, any
employee in respect of any work done by him less any lawful
deductions, shall be actually paid to him through payment into an
account at a bank, finance company, financial institution or other
institutions licensed or established under the Banking and Financial
Institutions Act 1989 [Act 372] or any other written law, in any part


Employment 35
of Malaysia being an account in the name of the employee or an
account in the name of the employee jointly with one or more other
persons as stipulated by the employee.
(2) Every employee shall be entitled to recover in the courts so
much of his wages, exclusive of sums lawfully deducted under Part
IV, as shall not have been actually paid to him in accordance with
subsection (1).
Payment of wages other than through bank
25 . (1) Notwithstanding subsection 25(1), an employer may, upon a
A
written request of the employee, other than a domestic servant, make
payment of his employee’s wages—
(a) in legal tender; or
(b) by cheque made payable to or to the order of the employee.
(2) In the case of a domestic servant, the employer shall, upon the
request of his domestic servant, obtain approval from the Director
General for the payment of wages of the domestic servant to be paid
in legal tender or by cheque.
(3) The request by the employee under subsections (1) and (2) may
be withdrawn by the employee at any time, by notice in writing, to
the employer.
(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) shall take effect at, but
not before, the end of the period of four weeks beginning with the
day on which the notice is given.
(5) The request of the employee to the mode of payment of wages
under subsections (1) and (2) shall not be unreasonably withheld by
the employer.
(6) Any dispute arising out of the request by the employee under
subsections (1) and (2) shall be referred to the Director General
whose decision on the matter shall be final.


(7) Section 69 shall not apply in respect of any dispute under
subsection (6).
Conditions restricting place at which, manner in which and
person with whom wages paid to be spent, illegal
26. No employer shall impose any condition in any contract of
service as to the place at which, or the manner in which, or the person
with whom, any wages paid to the employee are to be expended and
any such condition in a contract of service shall be void and of no
effect.
Interest on advances forbidden
27. No employer shall—
(a) make any deduction; or
(b) receive any payment,
from any employee by way of discount, interest or any similar charge
on account of any advance or advances of wages made to an
employee in anticipation of the regular date for the payment of
wages, where such advance or advances do not exceed in the
aggregate one month’s wages.
Restriction on places at which wages may be paid
28. No employer shall pay wages to employees in taverns or other
similar establishments or in places of amusement or in shops or stores
for the retail sale of merchandise except in the case of employees
employed therein.


Employment 37
Remuneration other than wages
29. (1) Nothing in this Part shall render illegal a contract of service
with an employee under which the employer agrees to provide the
employee with house accommodation, food, fuel, light, water,
medical attendance, or any approved amenity or approved service in
addition to wages but no employer shall provide any employee with
any intoxicating liquor as part of the terms of a contract of service.
(2) The Director General may, on application made to him in
writing by an employer, approve in writing any amenity or service as
an approved amenity or approved service, and in granting such
approval the Director General may make such modifications thereto
or impose such conditions thereon as he may deem proper.
(3) Any person who is dissatisfied with any decision of the
Director General under subsection (2) may, within thirty days of such
decision being communicated to him, appeal in writing therefrom to
the Minister.
(4) On any appeal made to him under subsection (3), the Minister
may make such decision or order thereon as appears just, and such
decision or order shall be final.
30. (Deleted by Act A1026).
PART VI
PRIORITY OF WAGES
Priority of wages over other debts
31. (1) Where by order of a court made upon the application of any
person holding a mortgage, charge, lien or decree (hereinafter
referred to as ―the secured creditor‖) or in the exercise of rights under
a debenture the property of any person (hereinafter referred to as ―the
person liable‖) liable under any of the provisions of this Act to pay
the wages due to any employee or to pay money due to any contractor


for labour is sold, or any money due to the person liable is attached or
garnished, the court or the receiver or manager shall not authorize
payment of the proceeds of the sale, or of the money so attached or
garnished, to the secured creditor or the debenture holder until the
court or the receiver or manager shall have ascertained and caused to
be paid, out of such proceeds or money, the wages of such employee,
or the money due to any contractor for labour under a contract
between him and the person liable, which the person liable was liable
to pay at the date of such sale, attachment or garnishment:
Provided that this section shall only apply to the sale of a place of
employment on which—
(a) any employee to whom wages are due as aforesaid;
(b) any employee to whom wages are due by such contractor
for labour as aforesaid;
(c) any contractor for labour to whom money is owed on
account of the sub-contract by the contractor for labour as
aforesaid,
was employed or worked at the time when such wages were earned or
such money accrued due, and to the proceeds of the sale of any
products of such place of employment and of any movable property
therein used in connection with such employment and to any money
due to the person liable on account of work performed by such
employee or contractor for labour or derived from the sale of the
products of such work:
Provided further that—
(a) where the person liable is an employer the total amount of the
wages of any employee to which priority over the claim of a
secured creditor is given by this section shall not exceed the
amount due by the employer to the employee as wages for
any four consecutive months’ work;
(b) where the person liable is a principal and where the wages are
claimed from such principal under section 33 the total amount


Employment 39
of the wages of any employees to which priority over the
claim of a secured creditor is given by this section shall not
exceed the amount due by the principal to the contractor at
the date of the sale, attachment or garnishment unless the
contractor is also a contractor for labour;
(c) where the person liable is a contractor or sub-contractor who
owes money to a contractor for labour the total amount due to
such contractor for labour to which priority over the claim of
a secured creditor is given by this section shall not exceed the
amount due by such contractor for labour to his employees
(including any further contractor for labour under such first-
mentioned contractor for labour) for any four consecutive
months’ work.
(2) In this section, except for the second proviso, ―wages‖ includes
termination and lay-off benefits, annual leave pay, sick leave pay,
public holiday pay and maternity allowance.
Reference by the court to Director General
32. (1) For the purposes of ascertaining the amount due to any
employee or sub-contractor for labour under section 31, the court or
the receiver or manager may refer the question to the Director
General with a request that he hold an inquiry thereinto and forward
his findings in respect thereof to the court or the receiver or manager,
and the Director General shall comply with any such request.
(2) For the purpose of any inquiry under subsection (1) the
Director General shall have all the powers conferred upon him by
paragraph 70(f) and section 80 shall have effect as if the inquiry were
being held under section 69.


PART VII
CONTRACTORS, PRINCIPALS AND CONTRACTORS
FOR LABOUR
Liability of principals and contractors for wages
33. (1) Where a principal in the course of or for the purposes of his
trade or business, contracts with a contractor for the execution by or
under the contractor of the whole or any part of any work undertaken
by the principal, and any wages are due to any employee by the
contractor or any sub-contractor under the contractor for work done
in the course of the performance of the contract, the principal and the
contractor and any such subcontractor (not being the employer) shall
be jointly and severally liable with the employer to pay such wages as
if that employee had been immediately employed by the principal and
by the contractor and any such sub-contractor:
Provided that—
(a) in the case of a contract for constructional work the
principal shall not be liable for the payment of wages under
this subsection unless he is also a constructional contractor
or a housing developer;
(b) the principal, and the contractor and any sub-contractor (not
being the employer), shall not be liable to any employee
under this subsection for more than the wages due to him
for any three consecutive months; and
(c) the employee shall have instituted proceedings against the
principal for the recovery of his wages or made a complaint
to the Director General under Part XV with in ninety days
from the date on which such wages became due for payment
by his employer in accordance with the provisions for the
payment of wages contained in Part III.
(2) Any person, other than the employer, who has paid wages
under this section to the employee of any employer may institute civil


Employment 41
proceedings against such employer for the recovery of the amount of
wages so paid.
Information relating to supply of employees
33A. (1) A contractor for labour who intends to supply or undertakes
to supply any employee shall register with the Director General in the
prescribed form within fourteen days before supplying the employee.
(2) If a contractor for labour referred to in subsection (1) supplies
any employee, he shall keep or maintain one or more registers
containing information regarding each employee supplied by him and
shall make such registers available for inspection.
(3) A contractor for labour who—
(a) supplies his employee without registering with the Director
General as required under subsection (1); or
(b) fails to keep or maintain any register, or make available any
register for inspection as required under subsection (2),
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand ringgit.
PART VIII
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN
Prohibition of night work
34. (1) Except in accordance with regulations made under this Act
or any exemption granted under the proviso to this subsection no
employer shall require any female employee to work in any industrial
or agricultural undertaking between the hours of ten o’clock in the
evening and five o’clock in the morning nor commence work for the
day without having had a period of eleven consecutive hours free
from such work:


Provided that the Director General may, on application made to
him in any particular case, exempt in writing any female employee or
class of female employees from any restriction in this subsection,
subject to any conditions he may impose.
(2) Any person—
(a) who is affected by any decision made or condition imposed
under the proviso to subsection (1); and
(b) who is dissatisfied with such decision or condition,
may within thirty days of such decision or condition being
communicated to him appeal in writing therefrom to the Minister.
(3) In deciding any appeal made to him under subsection (2), the
Minister may make such decision or order thereon, including the
alteration or removal of any condition imposed or the imposition of
any further condition, as appears just and such decision or order shall
be final.
Prohibition of underground work
35. No female employee shall be employed in any underground
working.
Prohibition of employment by Minister
36. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Part the Minister may by
order prohibit or permit the employment of female employees in such
circumstances or under such conditions as may be described in such
order.


Employment 43
PART IX
MATERNITY PROTECTION
Length of eligible period and entitlement to maternity allowance
37. (1) (a) Every female employee shall be entitled—
(i) to maternity leave for an eligible period in respect of
each confinement; and
(ii) subject to this Part, to receive from her employer a
maternity allowance to be calculated or prescribed as
provided in subsection (2) in respect of the eligible
period.
(aa) Where a female employee is entitled to maternity leave
under subparagraph (a)(i) but is not entitled to receive maternity
allowance from her employer for the eligible period under paragraph
(c), or because she has not fulfilled the conditions set out in
paragraph (2)(a), she may, with the consent of the employer,
commence work at any time during the eligible period if she has been
certified fit to resume work by a registered medical practitioner.
(b) Subject to section 40, maternity leave shall not commence
earlier than a period of thirty days immediately preceding the
confinement of a female employee or later than the day immediately
following her confinement:
Provided that where a medical officer or the registered medical
practitioner appointed by the employer certifies that the female
employee as a result of her advanced state of pregnancy is unable to
perform her duties satisfactorily, the employee may be required to
commence her maternity leave at any time during a period of fourteen
days preceding the date of her confinement as determined in advance
by the medical officer or the registered medical practitioner appointed
by the employer.
(bb) Where a female employee abstains from work to commence
her maternity leave on a date earlier than the period of thirty days


immediately preceding her confinement, such abstention shall not be
treated as maternity leave and she shall not be entitled to any
maternity allowance in respect of the days during which she abstains
from work in excess of the period of thirty days immediately
preceding her confinement.
(c) Notwithstanding subparagraph (a)(ii), a female employee shall
not be entitled to any maternity allowance if at the time of her
confinement she has five or more surviving children.
(d) For the purposes of this Part—
(i) ―children‖ means all natural children, irrespective of
age; and
(ii) ―eligible period‖ means a period of maternity leave of
not less than sixty consecutive days.
(2) (a) A female employee shall be entitled to receive maternity
allowance for the eligible period from her employer if—
(i) she has been employed by the employer for a period
of, or periods amounting in the aggregate to, not less
than ninety days during the nine months immediately
before her confinement; and
(ii) she has been employed by the employer at any time in
the four months immediately before her confinement;
(b) A female employee who is eligible for maternity allowance
under paragraph (1)(a) shall be entitled to receive from the employer
for each day of the eligible period a maternity allowance at her
ordinary rate of pay for one day, or at the rate prescribed by the
Minister under paragraph 102(2)(c), whichever is the greater.
(c) A female employee employed on a monthly rate of pay shall
be deemed to have received her maternity allowance if she continues
to receive her monthly wages during her abstention from work during
the eligible period without abatement in respect of the abstention.


Employment 45
(d) Where a female employee claims maternity allowance under
this section from more than one employer, she shall not be entitled to
receive a maternity allowance of an amount exceeding in the
aggregate the amount which she would be entitled to receive if her
claim was made against one employer only.
(3) Where there are more employers than one from whom the
female employee would be entitled to claim maternity allowance in
accordance with subsection (2) the employer who pays the maternity
allowance shall be entitled to recover from such other employer, as a
civil debt, a contribution which shall bear the same proportion to the
amount of the maternity allowance paid to the female employee as
the number of days on which she worked for such other employer
during the period of nine months immediately preceding her
confinement bears to the total number of days on which she worked
during the said period:
Provided that if the female employee has failed to comply with
subsection 40(1) or (2), the employer who pays the maternity
allowance shall not thereby be prevented from recovering
contribution calculated in accordance with this subsection.
(4) Any employer who terminates the service of a female
employee during the period in which she is entitled to maternity leave
commits an offence:
Provided that for the purpose of this section, such termination shall
not include termination on the ground of closure of the employer’s
business.
Payment of maternity allowance
38. The maternity allowance referred to in subsection 37(2) and
accruing in each wage period under the contract of service of the
female employee shall be paid in the same manner as if such
allowance were wages earned during such wage period as provided in
section 19.


Payment of allowance to nominee on death of female employee
39. If a female employee, after giving notice to her employer that
she expects to be confined, commences her maternity leave and dies
from any cause during the eligible period, her employer or any
employer who would have been, but for the death of the female
employee, liable to pay any maternity allowance shall pay to the
person nominated by her under section 41 or, if there is no such
person, to her legal personal representative, an allowance at the rate
calculated or prescribed as provided in subsection 37(2) from the day
she commenced her maternity leave to the day immediately preceding
her death.
Loss of maternity allowance for failure to notify employer
40. (1) A female employee who is about to leave her employment
and who knows or has reason to believe that she will be confined
within four months from the date upon which she leaves shall before
leaving her employment notify her employer of her pregnancy and if
she fails so to do, she shall not be entitled to receive any maternity
allowance from such employer.
(2) A female employee shall within a period of sixty days
immediately preceding her expected confinement notify her employer
of it and the date from which she intends to commence her maternity
leave and if she commences such leave without so notifying her
employer, the payment of maternity allowance to her may be
suspended, notwithstanding section 38, until such notice is given to
her employer.
(3) (Deleted by Act A1419).
(4) Any female employee whose employer provides free medical
treatment for his employees and who when she is pregnant
persistently refuses or fails to submit to such medical treatment
offered free by her employer as a registered medical practitioner
certifies to be necessary or desirable in connection with her
pregnancy, expected confinement or confinement shall, if she would


Employment 47
otherwise be entitled to receive any maternity allowance, forfeit such
allowance to the extent of seven days.
(5) The want of or any defect or inaccuracy in any notice required
to be given in accordance with this section shall not be a bar to the
maintenance of any claim to maternity allowance unless the employer
is proved to have been prejudiced by the want, defect or inaccuracy
of such notice.
(6) The failure to give any such notice within the period specified
in this section shall not prejudice the right of a female employee to
receive any maternity allowance if it is found that the failure was
occasioned by mistake or other reasonable cause:
Provided that any dispute as to whether such failure was
occasioned by mistake or other reasonable cause shall be referred
under section 69 to the Director General for his decision.
(7) Notice to an employer or, if there is more than one employer,
to one of such employers, may be given either in writing or orally or
to the foreman or other person under whose supervision the female
employee was employed or to any person designated for the purpose
by the employer.
Payment of allowance to nominee
41. A female employee may nominate some other person to whom
the maternity allowance may be paid on her behalf and any payment
of the maternity allowance made to the person so nominated shall, for
the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be a payment to the female
employee herself.
Restriction on dismissal of female employee after eligible period
42. (1) Where a female employee remains absent from her work after
the expiration of the eligible period as a result of illness certified by a
registered medical practitioner to arise out of her pregnancy and
confinement and to render her unfit for her work, it shall be an


offence, until her absence exceeds a period of ninety days after the
expiration of the eligible period, for her employer to terminate her
services or give her notice of termination of service.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), where the service of a female
employee is terminated with wages in lieu of notice at any time
during the period of four months immediately preceding her
confinement, she shall, in computing the period of her employment
for the purposes of this Part, be deemed to have been employed as if
she had been given due notice instead of wages in lieu thereof.
Conditions contrary to Part void
43. Any condition in a contract of service whereby a female
employee relinquishes or is deemed to relinquish any right under this
Part shall be void and of no effect and the right conferred under this
Part shall be deemed to be substituted for such condition.
Register of allowances paid
44. Every employer shall keep a register, in a form to be prescribed
by the Minister by regulations made under this Act, of all payments
made to female employees under this Part and of such other matters
incidental thereto as may be prescribed by such regulations.
Application of this Part irrespective of wages of female employee
44A. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of the First Schedule, this Part
extends to every female employee who is employed under a contract
of service irrespective of her wages.


Employment 49
PART X
EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN AND YOUNG PERSONS
45–56. (Deleted by *Act 40 of 1966).
PART XI
DOMESTIC SERVANTS
Termination of contract
57. Subject to any express provision to the contrary contained
therein, a contract to employ and to serve as a domestic servant
may be terminated either by the person employing the domestic
servant or by the domestic servant giving the other party fourteen
days’ notice of his intention to terminate the contract, or by the
paying of an indemnity equivalent to the wages which the domestic
servant would have earned in fourteen days:
Provided that any such contract may be terminated by either party
without notice and without the paying of an indemnity on the ground
of conduct by the other party inconsistent with the terms and
conditions of the contract.
Employment of foreign domestic servant
57A. (1) An employer who employs a foreign domestic servant shall,
within thirty days of the employment, inform the Director General of
such employment in a manner as may be determined by the Director
General.
*NOTE—The Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [Act 40 of 1966] has since been
revised as the Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [Act 350].


(2) An employer who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand ringgit.
Duty to inform Director General of termination of service of
foreign domestic servant
57 . (1) If the service of a foreign domestic servant is terminated—
B
(a) by the employer;
(b) by the foreign domestic servant;
(c) upon the expiry of the employment pass issued by the
Immigration Department of Malaysia to the foreign
domestic servant; or
(d) by the repatriation or deportation of the foreign domestic
servant,
the employer shall, within thirty days of the termination of service,
inform the Director General of the termination in a manner as may be
determined by the Director General.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b), the termination of service
by a foreign domestic servant includes the act of the foreign domestic
servant absconding from his place of employment.
(3) An employer who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand ringgit.
PART XII
REST DAYS, HOURS OF WORK, HOLIDAYS AND OTHER
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
58. (Omitted).


Employment 51
Non-application of Part XII
58A. This Part shall not apply to any term or condition of service
which is provided for in any collective agreement entered into before
the coming into operation of this Part and taken cognizance of by the
Industrial Court or in any award made by the Industrial Court while
such collective agreement or award remains in force.
Rest day
59. (1) Every employee shall be allowed in each week a rest day of
one whole day as may be determined from time to time by the
employer, and where an employee is allowed more than one rest day
in a week the last of such rest days shall be the rest day for the
purposes of this Part:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply during the period in
which the employee is on maternity leave as provided under section
37, or on sick leave as provided under section 60F, or during the
period of temporary disablement under the Workmen’s
Compensation Act 1952 [Act 273], or under the Employees’ Social
Security Act 1969.
(1A) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and the interpretation of the
expression ―day‖ in subsection 2(1), in the case of an employee
engaged in shift work any continuous period of not less than thirty
hours shall constitute a rest day.
(1B) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Director General, on a
written application by an employer and subject to any conditions he
may deem fit to impose, may permit the employer to grant the rest
day for each week on any day of the month in which the rest days fall
and the day so granted shall be deemed to be the employee’s rest day
for the purposes of this section.
(2) The employer shall prepare a roster before the commencement
of the month in which the rest days fall informing the employee of
the days appointed to be his rest days therein, and where the same
day in each week has been appointed as the rest day for all employees


in the place of employment, the employer may, in lieu of preparing a
roster, display a notice at a conspicuous place in the place of
employment informing the employee of the fixed rest day so
appointed.
(3) Every such roster and every particular recorded therein shall be
preserved and shall be made available for inspection for a period not
exceeding six years from the last day of the month in respect of
which the roster was prepared or cause to be prepared.
(4) Any employer who contravenes any of the provisions of this
section commits an offence.
Work on rest day
60. (1) Except as provided in subsection 60A(2), no employee shall be
compelled to work on a rest day unless he is engaged in work which
by reason of its nature requires to be carried on continuously or
continually by two or more shifts:
Provided that in the event of any dispute the Director General
shall have power to decide whether or not an employee is engaged in
work which by reason of its nature requires to be carried on
continuously or continually by two or more shifts.
(2) (Omitted).
(3) (a) In the case of an employee employed on a daily, hourly or
other similar rate of pay who works on a rest day, he shall be paid for
any period of work—
(i) which does not exceed half his normal hours of work,
one day’s wages at the ordinary rate of pay; or
(ii) which is more than half but does not exceed his
normal hours of work, two days’ wages at the ordinary
rate of pay.


Employment 53
(b) In the case of an employee employed on a monthly or weekly
rate of pay who works on a rest day, he shall be paid for any period of
work—
(i) which does not exceed half his normal hours of work,
wages equivalent to half the ordinary rate of pay for
work done on that day; or
(ii) which is more than half but which does not exceed his
normal hours of work, one day’s wages at the ordinary
rate of pay for work done on that day.
(c) For any work carried out in excess of the normal hours of
work on a rest day by an employee mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b),
he shall be paid at a rate which is not less than two times his hourly
rate of pay.
(d) In the case of an employee employed on piece rates who
works on a rest day, he shall be paid twice his ordinary rate per piece.
Hours of work
60A. (1) Except as hereinafter provided, an employee shall not be
required under his contract of service to work—
(a) more than five consecutive hours without a period of
leisure of not less than thirty minutes duration;
(b) more than eight hours in one day;
(c) in excess of a spread over period of ten hours in one
day;
(d) more than forty-eight hours in one week:
Provided that—
(i) for the purpose of paragraph (1)(a), any break of less
than thirty minutes in the five consecutive hours


shall not break the continuity of that five
consecutive hours;
(ii) an employee who is engaged in work which must be
carried on continuously and which requires his
continual attendance may be required to work for
eight consecutive hours inclusive of a period or
periods of not less than forty-five minutes in the
aggregate during which he shall have the
opportunity to have a meal; and
(iii) where, by agreement under the contract of service
between the employee and the employer, the number
of hours of work on one or more days of the week is
less than eight, the limit of eight hours may be
exceeded on the remaining days of the week, but so
that no employee shall be required to work for more
than nine hours in one day or forty-eight hours in
one week.
(1A) The Director General may, on the written application of an
employer, grant permission to the employer to enter into a contract of
service with any one or more of his employees, or with any class,
category or description of his employees, requiring the employee or
employees, or the class, category or description of employees, as the
case may be, to work in excess of the limit of hours prescribed under
paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) and (d) but subject to such conditions, if
any, as the Director General may deem proper to impose, if he is
satisfied that there are special circumstances pertaining to the
business or undertaking of the employer which renders it necessary or
expedient to grant such permission:
Provided that the Director General may at any time revoke the
approval given under this subsection if he has reason to believe that it
is expedient to do so.
(1B) Any person who is dissatisfied with any decision of the
Director General under subsection (1A) may, within thirty days of
such decision being communicated to him, appeal in writing there
from to the Minister.


Employment 55
(1C) On an appeal made to him under subsection (1B) the Minister
may make such decision or order thereon as appears just and such
decision or order shall be final.
(2) An employee may be required by his employer to exceed the
limit of hours prescribed in subsection (1) and to work on a rest day,
in the case of—
(a) accident, actual or threatened, in or with respect to his
place of work;
(b) work, the performance of which is essential to the life of
the community;
(c) work essential for the defence or security of Malaysia;
(d) urgent work to be done to machinery or plant;
(e) an interruption of work which it was impossible to
foresee; or
(f) work to be performed by employees in any industrial
undertaking essential to the economy of Malaysia or any
essential service as defined in the Industrial Relations Act
1967:
Provided that the Director General shall have the power to enquire
into and decide whether or not the employer is justified in calling
upon the employee to work in the circumstances specified in
paragraphs (a) to (f).
(3) (a) For any overtime work carried out in excess of the normal
hours of work, the employee shall be paid at a rate not less than one
and half times his hourly rate of pay irrespective of the basis on
which his rate of pay is fixed.
(b) In this section ―overtime‖ means the number of hours of
work carried out in excess of the normal hours of work per day:


Provided that if any work is carried out after the spread over
period of ten hours, the whole period beginning from the time that the
said spread over period ends up to the time that the employee ceases
work for the day shall be deemed to be overtime.
(c) For the purposes of this section, section 60, paragraph
60D(3)(a) and section 60I, ―normal hours of work‖ means the number
of hours of work as agreed between an employer and an employee in
the contract of service to be the usual hours of work per day and such
hours of work shall not exceed the limits of hours prescribed in
subsection (1).
(4) (a) No employer shall require or permit an employee to work
overtime exceeding such limit as may be prescribed by the Minister
from time to time by regulations made under this Act, and the
regulations so made may provide different limits for different classes,
categories or descriptions of employees, and such regulations may
also provide for such classes, categories or description of employees,
as may be specified, to be excluded from their application:
Provided that any work carried out on a rest day, or any of the
gazetted public holidays referred to in subsection 60D(1), or on any
paid holiday substituted there for under section 60D, shall not be
construed as overtime work for the purposes of this subsection;
And provided further that the Director General may, on
application made to him in writing by an employer or by an employee
or a group of employees, permit any particular employee, or any
group, class, category or description of employees in any particular
industry, undertaking or establishment to work overtime in excess of
the limit of hours so prescribed, subject to such conditions, if any, as
he may deem proper to impose.
(aa) Any person who is dissatisfied with any decision of the
Director General made under paragraph (a) may, within thirty days of
such decision being communicated to him, appeal in writing
therefrom to the Minister.


Employment 57
(ab) In deciding any appeal made to him under paragraph
(aa), the Minister may make such decision or order thereon as
appears just and such decision or order shall be final.
(b) For the purposes of the restriction on overtime under this
subsection ―overtime‖ shall have the meaning assigned thereto in
paragraph (3)(b).
(5) (Omitted).
(6) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of
calculating the payment due for overtime to an employee employed
on piece rates.
(7) Except in the circumstances described in paragraph (2)(a),(b),
(c), (d) and (e), no employer shall require any employee under any
circumstances to work for more than twelve hours in any one day.
(8) This section shall not apply to employees engaged in work
which by its nature involves long hours of inactive or stand-by
employment.
(9) For the purposes of this Part ―hours of work‖ means the time
during which an employee is at the disposal of the employer and is
not free to dispose of his own time and movements.
Task work
60B. Nothing contained in this Part shall prevent any employer from
agreeing with any employee that the wages of such employee shall be
paid at an agreed rate in accordance with the task, that is the specific
amount of work to be performed, and not by the day or by the piece.
Shift work
60C. (1) Notwithstanding paragraphs 60A(1)(b), (c) and (d), but
subject to paragraph (1)(a) thereof, an employee who is engaged
under his contract of service in shift work may be required by his


employer to work more than eight hours in any one day or more than
forty-eight hours in any one week but the average number of hours
worked over any period of three weeks, or over any period exceeding
three weeks as may be approved by the Director General, shall not
exceed forty-eight per week.
(1A) The approval of the Director General in subsection (l) may be
granted if the Director General is satisfied that there are special
circumstances pertaining to the business or undertaking of the
employer which render it necessary or expedient for him to grant the
permission subject to such conditions as he may deem fit to impose.
(1B) The Director General may revoke the approval given under
subsection (1A) at any time if he has reason to believe that it is
expedient so to do.
(2) Except in the circumstances described in paragraphs 60A(2)(a),
(b), (c), (d) and (e), no employer shall require any employee who is
engaged under his contract of service in shift work to work for more
than twelve hours in any one day.
(3) (Omitted).
Holidays
60D. (1) Every employee shall be entitled to a paid holiday at his
ordinary rate of pay on the following days in any one calendar year:
(a) on eleven of the gazetted public holidays, five of which
shall be—
(i) the National Day;
(ii) the Birthday of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong;
(iii) the Birthday of the Ruler or the Yang di-Pertua
Negeri, as the case may be, of the State in which
the employee wholly or mainly works under his
contract of service, or the Federal Territory Day,


Employment 59
if the employee wholly or mainly works in the
Federal Territory;
(iv) the Workers’ Day; and
(v) Malaysia Day; and
(b) on any day appointed as a public holiday for that particular
year under section 8 of the Holidays Act 1951 [Act 369]:
Provided that if any of the public holidays referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) falls on—
(i) a rest day; or
(ii) any other public holiday referred to in paragraphs
(a) and (b),
the working day following immediately the rest day or the other
public holiday shall be a paid holiday in substitution of the first
mentioned public holiday.
(1A) The employer shall exhibit conspicuously at the place of
employment before the commencement of each calendar year a notice
specifying the remaining six gazetted public holidays provided for in
paragraph (1)(a) in respect of which his employees shall be entitled to
paid holidays under paragraph (1)(a):
Provided that by agreement between the employer and an
employee any other day or days may be substituted for one or more
of the remaining six gazetted public holidays provided for in
paragraph (1)(a):
And provided further that the employer may grant the employee
any other day as a paid public holiday in substitution for any of the
public holidays referred to in paragraph (1)(b).
(1B) Where any of the public holidays or any other day
substituted therefore as provided in subsection (1) or (1A) falls within
the period during which an employee is on sick leave or annual leave


to which the employee is entitled under this Act, or falls during the
period of temporary disablement under the Workmen’s
Compensation Act 1952, or under the Employees Social Security Act
1969, the employer shall grant another day as a paid holiday in
substitution for such public holiday or the day substituted therefore.
(2) Any employee who absents himself from work on the working
day immediately preceding or immediately succeeding a public
holiday or two or more consecutive public holidays or any day or
days substituted therefore under this section without the prior consent
of his employer shall not be entitled to any holiday pay for such
holiday or consecutive holidays unless he has a reasonable excuse for
such absence.
(2A) An employee on a monthly rate of pay shall be deemed to
have received his holiday pay if he receives from his employer his
monthly wages, without abatement (other than as provided under
subsection (2)) in respect of the holiday, for the month in which the
holiday falls.
(3) (a) Notwithstanding subsections (1), (1A) and (1B), any
employee may be required by his employer to work on any paid
holiday to which he is entitled under the said subsections and in such
event he shall, in addition to the holiday pay he is entitled to for that
day—
(i) in the case of an employee employed on a monthly,
weekly, daily, hourly, or other similar rate of pay, be
paid two days’ wages at the ordinary rate of pay; or
(ii) in the case of an employee employed on piece rates, be
paid twice the ordinary rate per piece,
regardless that the period of work done on that day is less than the
normal hours of work.
(aa) For any overtime work carried out by an employee
referred to in subparagraph (a)(i) in excess of the normal hours of
work on a paid public holiday, the employee shall be paid at a rate
which is not less than three times his hourly rate of pay.


Employment 61
(aaa) For any overtime work carried out by an employee
referred to in subparagraph (a)(ii) in excess of the normal hours of
work on any paid holiday, the employee shall be paid not less than
three times the ordinary rate per piece.
(b) An employee who works on a holiday shall be entitled
to a travelling allowance for that day if payable to him under the
terms of his agreement with his employer but such employee shall
not be entitled under this subsection to receive an increased rate of
any housing allowance or food allowance.
(4) For the purposes of this section if any such holiday falls on a
half working day, the ordinary rate of pay payable shall be that of a
full working day.
Annual leave
60E. (1) An employee shall be entitled to paid annual leave of—
(a) eight days for every twelve months of continuous service
with the same employer if he has been employed by that
employer for a period of less than two years;
(b) twelve days for every twelve months of continuous
service with the same employer if he has been employed
by that employer for a period of two years or more but
less than five years; and
(c) sixteen days for every twelve months of continuous
service with the same employer if he has been employed
by that employer for a period of five years or more,
and if he has not completed twelve months of continuous service with
the same employer during the year in which his contract of service
terminates, his entitlement to paid annual leave shall be in direct
proportion to the number of completed months of service:
Provided that any fraction of a day of annual leave so calculated
which is less than one-half of a day shall be disregarded, and where


the fraction of a day is one-half or more it shall be deemed to be one
day;
And provided further that where an employee absents himself
from work without the permission of his employer and without
reasonable excuse for more than ten per centum of the working days
during the twelve months of continuous service in respect of which
his entitlement to such leave accrues he shall not be entitled to such
leave.
(1A) The paid annual leave to which an employee is entitled under
subsection (1) shall be in addition to rest days and paid holidays.
(1B) Where an employee who is on paid annual leave becomes
entitled to sick leave or maternity leave while on such annual leave,
the employee shall be granted the sick leave or the maternity leave, as
the case may be, and the annual leave shall be deemed to have not
been taken in respect of the days for which sick leave or maternity
leave is so granted.
(2) The employer shall grant and the employee shall take such
leave not later than twelve months after the end of every twelve
months continuous service and any employee who fails to take such
leave at the end of such period shall thereupon cease to be entitled
thereto:
Provided that an employee shall be entitled to payment in lieu of
such annual leave if, at the request of his employer, he agrees in
writing not to avail himself of any or all of his annual leave
entitlement.
(2A) Notwithstanding subsection (2), upon the termination of an
employee’s contract of service, the employee shall be entitled to take
before such termination takes place the paid annual leave due to be
taken in the year in which the termination takes place in respect of the
twelve months of service preceding the year in which the termination
takes place, and, in addition, the leave accrued in respect of the
completed months of service during the year in which the termination
takes place.


Employment 63
(3) The employer shall pay the employee his ordinary rate of pay
for every day of paid annual leave, and an employee on a monthly
rate of pay shall be deemed to have received the annual leave pay if
he receives his monthly wages, without abatement in respect of such
annual leave, for the month in which he takes such annual leave.
(3A) If the contract of service has been terminated by either party
before an employee has taken the paid annual leave to which he is
entitled under this section, the employer shall pay the employee his
ordinary rate of pay in respect of every day of such leave:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply where an employee
is dismissed under paragraph 14(1)(a).
(3B) Where an employee is granted leave of absence without pay
by his employer during any period of twelve months and the period
of absence exceeds in the aggregate thirty days, that period of leave
of absence shall be disregarded for the purpose of computing his
length of service with the employer under this section.
(4) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, fix the
periods when and prescribe the manner in which annual leave shall be
granted to employees in different types of employment or in different
classes of industries.
Sick leave
60F. (1) An employee shall, after examination at the expense of the
employer—
(a) by a registered medical practitioner duly appointed by the
employer; or
(b) if no such medical practitioner is appointed or, if having
regard to the nature or circumstances of the illness, the
services of the medical practitioner so appointed are not
obtainable within a reasonable time or distance, by any
other registered medical practitioner or by a medical
officer,


be entitled to paid sick leave,—
(aa) where no hospitalization is necessary,—
(i) of fourteen days in the aggregate in each calendar
year if the employee has been employed for less than
two years;
(ii) of eighteen days in the aggregate in each calendar
year if the employee has been employed for two
years or more but less than five years;
(iii) of twenty-two days in the aggregate in each calendar
year if the employee has been employed for five
years or more; or
(bb) of sixty days in the aggregate in each calendar year if
hospitalization is necessary, as may be certified by such
registered medical practitioner or medical officer:
Provided that the total number of days of paid sick leave in a
calender year which an employee is entitled to under this section shall
be sixty days in the aggregate;
And provided further that if an employee is certified by such
registered medical practitioner or medical officer to be ill enough to
need to be hospitalized but is not hospitalized for any reason
whatsoever, the employee shall be deemed to be hospitalized for the
purposes of this section.
(1A) An employee shall also be entitled to paid sick leave under
paragraphs (1)(aa) and (bb) after examination by a dental surgeon as
defined in the Dental Act 1971 [Act 51]:
Provided that the entitlement for such sick leave shall be inclusive
of the number of days provided for under paragraphs (1)(aa) and
(bb).
(2) An employee who absents himself on sick leave—


Employment 65
(a) which is not certified by a registered medical practitioner
or a medical officer as provided under subsection (1) or a
dental surgeon as provided under subsection (1 ); or
A
(b) which is certified by such registered medical practitioner
or medical officer or dental surgeon, but without
informing or attempting to inform his employer of such
sick leave within forty-eight hours of the commencement
thereof,
shall be deemed to absent himself from work without the permission
of his employer and without reasonable excuse for the days on which
he is so absent from work.
(3) The employer shall pay the employee his ordinary rate of pay
for every day of such sick leave, and an employee on a monthly rate
of pay shall be deemed to have received his sick leave pay if he
receives from his employer his monthly wages, without abatement in
respect of the days on which he was on sick leave, for the month
during which he was on such sick leave.
(4) No employee shall be entitled to paid sick leave for the period
during which the employee is entitled to maternity allowance under
Part IX, or for any period during which he is receiving any
compensation for disablement under the Workmen’s Compensation
Act 1952 [Act 273], or any periodical payments for temporary
disablement under the Employees Social Security Act 1969 [Act 4].
60G. (Omitted).
60H. (Omitted).
Interpretation
60I. (1) For the purposes of this Part and Part IX—


(a) ―ordinary rate of pay‖ means wages as defined in section
2, whether calculated by the month, the week, the day,
the hour, or by piece rate, or otherwise, which an
employee is entitled to receive under the terms of his
contract of service for the normal hours of work for one
day, but does not include any payment made under an
approved incentive payment scheme or any payment for
work done on a rest day or on any gazetted public
holiday granted by the employer under the contract of
service or any day substituted for the gazetted public
holiday; and
(b) ―hourly rate of pay‖ means the ordinary rate of pay
divided by the normal hours of work.
(1A) Where an employee is employed on a monthly rate of pay,
the ordinary rate of pay shall be calculated according to the following
formula:
monthly rate of pay
.
(1B) Where an employee is employed on a weekly rate of pay, the
ordinary rate of pay shall be calculated according to the following
formula:
monthly rate of pay
.
(1C) Where an employee is employed on a daily or an hourly rate
of pay or on piece rates, the ordinary rate of pay shall be calculated
by dividing the total wages earned by the employee during the
preceding wage period (excluding any payment made under an
approved incentive payment scheme or for work done on any rest
day, any gazetted public holiday granted by the employer under the
contract of service or any day substituted for the gazetted public
holiday) by the actual number of days the employee had worked
during that wage period (excluding any rest day, any gazetted public


Employment 67
holiday or any paid holiday substituted for the gazetted public
holiday).
(1D) For the purposes of payment of sick leave under section 60
F
,
the calculation of the ordinary rate of pay of an employee employed
on a daily or an hourly rate of pay or on piece rates under subsection
(1 ) shall take account only of the basic pay the employee receives or
C
the rate per piece he is paid for work done in a day under the contract
of service.
(2) An employer may adopt any method or formula other than the
method or formula in subsection (1A), (1B) or (1C) for calculating the
ordinary rate of pay of an employee; but the adoption of any other
method or formula shall not result in a rate which is less than any of
the rates provided in the subsections.
(3) For the purpose of this section, the Director General may, on
application made to him in writing by an employer, approve in
writing any incentive payment scheme as an approved incentive
payment scheme.
PART XIIA
TERMINATION, LAY-OFF, AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Termination, lay-off and retirement benefits
60J. (1) The Minister may, by regulations made under this Act,
provide for the entitlement of employees to, and for the payment by
employers of—
(a) termination benefits;
(b) lay-off benefits;
(c) retirement benefits.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
regulations made by virtue of subsection (1) may provide—


(a) for the definition of the expression ―termination benefits‖,
―lay-off benefits‖, or ―retirement benefits‖, as the case
may be, and for the circumstances in which the same shall
be payable;
(b) for the application thereof to employees who were in
employment under a contract of service immediately
before the commencement of such regulations and who
continue in such employment after the commencement
thereof;
(c) for the application thereof to all employees generally or to
any particular class, category or description of employees;
(d) for the exclusion from the application thereof of any
particular employee or employees, or any class, category
or description of employees;
(e) for the payment of different rates or amounts of
termination benefits, lay-off benefits, or retirement
benefits, as the case may be, to different classes,
categories or descriptions of employees.
PART XIIB
EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN EMPLOYEES
Duty to furnish information and returns
60K. (1) An employer who employs a foreign employee shall, within
fourteen days of the employment, furnish the Director General with
the particulars of the foreign employee by forwarding the particulars
to the nearest office of the Director General in such manner as may
be determined by the Director General.
(2) An employer or any specified class or classes of employers,
whenever required to do so by the Director General, shall furnish
returns of particulars relating to the employment of a foreign


Employment 69
employee in such manner and at such intervals as the Director
General may direct.
(3) If the service of a foreign employee is terminated—
(a) by the employer;
(b) by the foreign employee;
(c) upon the expiry of the employment pass issued by the
Immigration Department of Malaysia to the foreign
employee; or
(d) by the repatriation or deportation of the foreign employee,
the employer shall, within thirty days of the termination of service,
inform the Director General of the termination in a manner as may be
determined by the Director General.
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (3)(b), the termination of
service by a foreign employee includes the act of the foreign
employee absconding from his place of employment.
(5) An employer who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand ringgit.
Director General may inquire into complaint
60L. (1) The Director General may inquire into any complaint from a
local employee that he is being discriminated against in relation to a
foreign employee, or from a foreign employee that he is being
discriminated against in relation to a local employee, by his employer
in respect of the terms and conditions of his employment; and the
Director General may issue to the employer such directives as may be
necessary or expedient to resolve the matter.
(2) An employer who fails to comply with any directive of the
Director General issued under subsection (1) commits an offence.


Prohibition on termination of local for foreign employee
60M. No employer shall terminate the contract of service of a local
employee for the purpose of employing a foreign employee.
Termination of employment by reason of redundancy
60N. Where an employer is required to reduce his workforce by
reason of redundancy necessitating the retrenchment of any number
of employees, the employer shall not terminate the services of a local
employee unless he has first terminated the services of all foreign
employees employed by him in a capacity similar to that of the local
employee.
Permanent resident exempted from this Part
60O. For the purposes of this Part, the term ―foreign employee‖ shall
not include a foreign employee who is a permanent resident of
Malaysia.
PART XIII
REGISTERS, RETURNS AND NOTICE BOARDS
Duty to keep registers
61. (1) Every employer shall prepare and keep one or more registers
containing such information regarding each employee employed by
him as may be prescribed by regulations made under this Act.
(2) Every such register shall be preserved for such period that
every particular recorded therein shall be available for inspection for
not less than six years after the recording thereof.
(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the Director General,
on a written application by an employer, may permit the employer to
keep the information required under subsection (1) in any other


Employment 71
manner as may be approved by the Director General subject to such
conditions as he may deem fit to impose.
Power to make regulations requiring information as to wages
62. The Minister may, by regulations made under this Act, provide
that every employer or any specified class or classes of employers
shall make available, in such form and at such intervals as may be
prescribed, to every employee employed by him or them or to such
class or classes of employees as may be specified such particulars as
may be specified relating to the wages of such employees or any of
them.
Duty to submit returns
63. (1) The Director General may, by notification in the Gazette or by
notice in writing require every employer or such class or classes of
employers as may be specified, and every owner or occupier of land
upon which employees are employed or such class or classes of
owners or occupiers as may be specified, to forward to the Director
General at such times as he may direct a return or returns, in such
form or forms as he may prescribe, giving such particulars relating to
the employees of the employers, or to the employees employed on the
land, as may be prescribed.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the powers of the
Director General under subsection (1) extends to every employee
employed under a contract of service irrespective of the monthly
wages of the employee.
Duty to give notice and other information
63A. (1) Any person or employer who proposes—
(a) to operate any agricultural or industrial undertaking or any
establishment where any commerce, trade, profession or
business of any description is carried on; or


(b) to take over or commence business in such undertaking or
establishment; or
(c) to change the name or the location of such undertaking or
establishment,
in which any employee is employed or is likely to be employed shall,
within ninety days of such commencing of operation, taking over or
commencing of business, or changing the name or the location of the
undertaking or establishment, as the case may be, give notice in
writing thereof to the nearest office of the Director of Labour having
jurisdiction for the area in which that undertaking or establishment is
located and furnish such office of the Director of Labour with—
(i) the registered name, address and nature of business of;
(ii) the name of the manager or person in charge of; and
(iii) a statement of the categories and total number of
employees employed in,
that undertaking or establishment.
(1A) For the purposes of this section the expressions
―commencing of operation‖ and ―commencing of business‖ each
means the date on which the undertaking or establishment is
registered under any written law, or the date on which the first
employee is employed in furtherance of the operation, commerce,
trade or business of such undertaking or establishment, whichever is
earlier.
(2) Where any undertaking or establishment as is referred to in
subsection (1) is already in operation or has commenced business,
such notice shall be given within ninety days of the coming into force
of this section.
(3) Any person or employer who fails to give notice as required
by this section or gives such notice containing any false particulars
commits an offence.


Employment 73
Duty to display notice boards
64. The owner of any—
(a) estate of twenty hectares or more;
(b) mine;
(c) factory;
(d) trade, business or manufacturing activity carried on in any
premises,
on or in which not less than five employees are employed shall, if
such estate, mine, factory or premises is outside the limits of a City,
Municipality, Town Council, Town Board or other local authority,
cause to be erected where practicable in a conspicuous place at or
adjacent to the place where the access road to such estate, mine,
factory or premises joins the main road or a railway or river, as the
case may be, a notice board on which shall be set out in the national
language the name of such estate, mine, factory, trade, business or
manufacturing activity and the address of the registered or other
office thereof.
PART XIV
INSPECTION
Powers of inspection and inquiry
65. The Director General shall have power to enter without previous
notice at all times any place of employment where he has reasonable
grounds for believing that employees are employed and to inspect
any building occupied or used for any purpose connected with such
employment and to make any inquiry which he considers necessary
in relation to any matter within the provisions of this Act.


Inspecting officer to notify presence
66. On the occasion of any inspection under this Part the Director
General shall where practicable notify the owner or occupier of the
place of employment, and the employer of any employees employed
thereat, of his presence unless he has reasonable grounds for
believing that such notification might be prejudicial to the
performance of his duties.
Powers of inspecting officers
67. In the course of an inspection under this Part—
(a) the Director General may examine orally any person whom
he believes to be acquainted with the facts and
circumstances of any matter within the provisions of this
Act;
(b) the person so examined shall be legally bound to answer
truthfully all questions put to him;
(c) the Director General examining a person under paragraph
(a) shall first inform that person of the provisions of
paragraph (b);
(d) a statement made by a person under this section shall,
whenever possible, be reduced into writing and signed by
the person making it or affixed with his thumb print, as the
case may be, after it has been read to him in the language in
which he made it and after he has been given an opportunity
to make any correction he may wish; and
(e) any statement made and recorded under this section shall be
admissible as evidence in any proceedings in Court.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a person examined under that
subsection may refuse to answer any question the answer to which
would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or penalty
or forfeiture.


Employment 75
(3) The Director General, in addition to the powers conferred on
him under subsection (1), may—
(a) require the employer to produce before him all or any of
the employees employed by him together with any
contracts of service, books of account of wages, registers
and other documents relating to the employees or their
employment and to answer such questions in respect of
the employees or their employment as he may think fit to
ask;
(b) copy or make extracts from the contracts of service, books
of account of wages, registers and other documents
relating to the employees or their employment;
(c) take possession of the contracts of service, books of
account of wages, registers and other documents relating
to the employees or their employment where, in his
opinion—
(i) the inspection, copying or the making of extracts from
the contracts of service, books of account of wages,
registers or other documents cannot reasonably be
undertaken without taking possession of them;
(ii) the contracts of service, books of account of wages,
registers or other documents may be interfered with or
destroyed unless he takes possession of them; or
(iii) the contracts of service, books of account of wages,
registers or other documents may be needed as
evidence in any legal proceedings under this Act.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3)(a), no employee shall be
required to leave or to cease from performing any work on which he
is engaged if his absence or cessation from such work would
endanger life or property or seriously disrupt any operation being
carried on by his employer.


Officers to be authorized by the Director General
68. An officer appointed under subsection 3(2) shall not exercise any
of the powers of the Director General under this Part unless he is in
possession of an official identification card signed by the Director
General authorizing him to exercise such powers, and any officer so
authorized shall produce his official identification card on demand to
the owner or occupier of the place of employment and to the
employer of any employees employed thereat.
PART XV
COMPLAINTS AND INQUIRIES
Director General’s power to inquire into complaints
69. (1) The Director General may inquire into and decide any dispute
between an employee and his employer in respect of wages or any
other payments in cash due to such employee under—
(a) any term of the contract of service between such employee
and his employer;
(b) any of the provisions of this Act or any subsidiary
legislation made thereunder; or
(c) the provisions of the Wages Councils Act 1947 [Act 195]
or any order made thereunder,
and, in pursuance of such decision, may make an order in the
prescribed form for the payment by the employer of such sum of
money as he deems just without limitation of the amount thereof.
(2) The powers of the Director General under subsection (1) shall
include the power to hear and decide, in accordance with the
procedure laid down in this Part, any claim by—
(i) an employee against any person liable under section
33;


Employment 77
(ii) a contractor for labour against a contractor or sub-
contractor for any sum which the contractor for labour
claims to be due to him in respect of any labour
provided by him under his contract with the contractor
or sub-contractor; or
(iii) an employer against his employee in respect of
indemnity due to such employer under subsection
13(1),
and to make such consequential orders as may be necessary to give
effect to his decision.
(3) In addition to the powers conferred by subsections (1) and (2),
the Director General may inquire into and confirm or set aside any
decision made by an employer under subsection 14(1) and the
Director General may make such consequential orders as may be
necessary to give effect to his decision:
Provided that if the decision of the employer under paragraph
14(1)(a) is set aside, the consequential order of the Director General
against such employer shall be confined to payment of indemnity in
lieu of notice and other payments that the employee is entitled to as if
no misconduct was committed by the employee:
Provided further that the Director General shall not set aside any
decision made by an employer under paragraph 14(1)(c) if such
decision has not resulted in any loss in wages or other payments
payable to the employee under his contract of service:
And provided further that the Director General shall not exercise
the power conferred by this subsection unless the employee has made
a complaint to him under the provisions of this Part within sixty days
from the date on which the decision under section 14 is
communicated to him either orally or in writing by his employer.
(3A) An order made by the Director General for the payment of
money under this section shall carry interest at the rate of eight per
centum per annum, or at such other rate not exceeding eight per


centum per annum as the Director General may direct, the interest to
be calculated commencing on the thirty-first day from the date of the
making of the order until the day the order is satisfied:
Provided that the Director General, on an application by an
employer made within thirty days from the date of the making of the
order, if he is satisfied that special circumstances exist, may
determine any other date from which the interest is to be calculated.
(4) Any person who fails to comply with any decision or order of
the Director General made under this section commits an offence and
shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
ringgit; and shall also, in the case of a continuing offence, be liable to
a daily fine not exceeding one hundred ringgit for each day the
offence continues after conviction.
Limitation on power conferred by section 69
69A. Notwithstanding section 69, the Director General shall not
inquire into, hear, decide or make any order in respect of any claim,
dispute or purported dispute which, in accordance with the Industrial
Relations Act 1967—
(a) is pending in any inquiry or proceedings under that Act;
(b) has been decided upon by the Minister under subsection
20(3) of that Act; or
(c) has been referred to, or is pending in any proceedings
before, the Industrial Court.
Additional powers of Director General to inquire into complaints
69B. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the powers of
the Director General under paragraph 69(1)(a) shall extend to
employees whose wages per month exceed two thousand ringgit but
does not exceed five thousand ringgit.


Employment 79
(2) For the purposes of this section, the term ―wages‖ means
wages as defined in section 2 but does not include any payment by
way of commission, subsistence allowance or overtime payment.
(3) Save for Parts XV and XVI which shall apply with the
necessary modifications, the other provisions of this Act shall not
apply to the employees referred to in subsection (1).
Claims for indemnity for termination of contract without notice
69C. (1) In the exercise of his powers under subsection 69B(1), the
Director General may inquire into and decide any claim concerning
any indemnity due to the employer or employee where the contract of
service is terminated by either party without notice, or if notice was
given, without waiting for the expiry of that notice.
(2) The indemnity due to the employer or employee under
subsection (1) shall be a sum equal to the amount of wages which
would have accrued to the employee during the term of the notice or
during the unexpired term of the notice.
Order of Director General may be in writing
69D. Notwithstanding subsection 69(1), an order of the Director
General made under subsection 69B(1) or 69C(1) for the payment by
or to the employer or employee of a sum of money as the Director
General deems just, without any limitation of amount, may be made
in writing.
Penalty for offence
69E. A person who fails to comply with a decision or an order of the
Director General made under subsection 69B(1) or 69C(1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand ringgit; and shall also, in the case of a
continuing offence, be liable to a daily fine not exceeding one
hundred ringgit for each day the offence continues after conviction.


Procedure in Director General’s inquiry
70. The procedure for disposing of questions arising under sections
69, 69B and 69C shall be as follows:
(a) the person complaining shall present to the Director General
a written statement of his complaint and of the remedy
which he seeks or he shall in person make a statement to the
Director General of his complaint and of the remedy which
he seeks;
(b) the Director General shall as soon as practicable thereafter
examine the complainant on oath or affirmation and shall
record the substance of the complainant’s statement in his
case book;
(c) the Director General may make such inquiry as he deems
necessary to satisfy himself that the complaint discloses
matters which in his opinion ought to be inquired into and
may summon in the prescribed form the person complained
against, or if it appears to him without any inquiry that the
complaint discloses matters which ought to be inquired into
he may forthwith summon the person complained against:
Provided that if the person complained against attends
in person before the Director General it shall not be
necessary to serve a summons upon him;
(d) when issuing a summons to a person complained against the
Director General shall give such person notice of the nature
of the complaint made against him and the name of the
complainant and shall inform him of the date, time and
place at which he is required to attend and shall inform him
that he may bring with him any witnesses he may wish to
call on his behalf and that he may apply to the Director
General for summonses to such persons to appear as
witnesses on his behalf;
(e) when the Director General issues a summons to a person
complained against he shall inform the complainant of the


Employment 81
date, time and place mentioned therein and shall instruct the
complainant to bring with him any witnesses he may wish
to call on his behalf and may, on the request of the
complainant and subject to any conditions as he may deem
fit to impose, issue summonses to such witnesses to appear
on behalf of the complainant;
(f) when at any time before or during an inquiry the Director
General has reason to believe that there are any persons
whose financial interests are likely to be affected by such
decision as he may give on completion of the inquiry or
who he has reason to believe have knowledge of the matters
in issue or can give any evidence relevant thereto he may
summon any or all of such persons;
(g) the Director General shall, at the time and place appointed,
examine on oath or affirmation those persons summoned or
otherwise present whose evidence he deems material to the
matters in issue and shall then give his decision on the
matters in issue;
(h) if the person complained against or any person whose
financial interests the Director General has reason to believe
are likely to be affected and who has been duly summoned
to attend at the time and place appointed in the summons
shall fail so to attend the Director General may hear and
decide the complaint in the absence of such person
notwithstanding that the interests of such person may be
prejudicially affected by his decision;
(i) in order to enable a court to enforce the decision of the
Director General, the Director General shall embody his
decision in an order in such form as may be prescribed.
Director General’s record of inquiry
71. The Director General shall keep a case book in which he shall
record the evidence of persons summoned or otherwise present and
his decision and order in each matter in issue before him and shall


authenticate the same by attaching his signature thereto and the
record in such case book shall be sufficient evidence of the giving of
any decision; and any person interested in such decision or order shall
be entitled to a copy thereof free of charge and to a copy of the record
upon payment of the prescribed fee.
Joinder of several complaints in one complaint
72. Where it appears to the Director General in any proceedings
under this Part that there are more employees than one having a
common cause for complaint against the same employer or person
liable, it shall not be necessary for each such employee to make a
separate complaint under this Part, but the Director General may, if
he thinks fit, permit one or more of them to make a complaint and to
attend and act on behalf of and generally to represent the others, and
the Director General may proceed to a decision on the joint complaint
or complaints of each and all such employees:
Provided that, where the Director General is of opinion that the
interests of the employer or person liable are likely to be prejudiced
by the non-attendance of any employee, he shall require the personal
attendance of such employee.
Prohibitory order by Director General to third party
73. (1) Whenever the Director General shall have made an order
under section 69, 69B or 69C against any employer or any person
liable for the payment of any sum of money to any employee or
contractor for labour and the Director General has reason to believe
that there exists between such employer or person liable and any
other person a contract in the course of the performance of which the
employee or sub-contractor performed the work in respect of which
the order was made, the Director General may summon such other
person and, if after enquiry he is satisfied that such a contract exists,
may make an order in the prescribed form prohibiting him from
paying to the employer or person liable and requiring him to pay to
the Director General any money (not exceeding the amount found


Employment 83
due to such employee or contractor for labour) admitted by him to be
owing to the employer or person liable in respect of such contract:
Provided that where such other person admits to the Director
General in writing that money is owing by him under such contract to
the employer or person liable he need not be summoned to attend
before the Director General and the Director General may make such
order in his absence:
Provided further that where such other person is liable as a
principal under subsection 33(1) to pay any wages due by the
employer or person liable and where the money admitted by him to
be owing to the employer or person liable is not sufficient to pay the
whole of such wages nothing in this subsection shall relieve him of
his liability for the balance of such wages up to the amount for which
he is liable under proviso (b) to the said subsection.
(2) The payment of any money in pursuance of an order under
subsection (1) shall be a discharge and payment up to the amount so
paid of money due to the employer or person liable under the
contract.
No fees for summons: service of summons
74. (1) No fee shall be charged by the Director General in respect of
any summons issued by him under this Part.
(2) Any such summons may be served by a Sessions Court or a
Magistrates’ Court on behalf of the Director General, or in such other
manner, and by such person, as the Director General may deem fit.
Enforcement of Director General’s order by Sessions Court
75. Where any order has been made by the Director General under
this Part, and the same has not been complied with by the person to
whom it is addressed, the Director General may send a certified copy
thereof to the Registrar of a Sessions Court, or to the Court of a First
Class Magistrate, having jurisdiction in the place to which the order


relates or in the place where the order was made, and the said
Registrar or Court, as the case may be, shall cause the said copy to be
recorded and thereupon the said order shall for all purposes be
enforceable as a judgment of the Sessions Court, or of the Court of
the First Class Magistrate, as the case may be, notwithstanding that
the same may in respect of amount or value be in excess of the
ordinary jurisdiction of the said Court:
Provided that no sale of immovable property shall for the
purposes of such enforcement be ordered except by the High Court.
Submission by Director General to High Court on point of law
76. (1) In any proceedings under this Part the Director General may,
if he thinks fit, submit any question of law for the decision of a Judge
of the High Court and if he does so he shall decide the proceedings in
conformity with such decision.
(2) An appeal shall lie to the Court of Appeal from any decision
of a Judge under subsection (1).
Appeal against Director General’s order to High Court
77. (1) If any person whose financial interests are affected is
dissatisfied with the decision or order of the Director General under
section 69, 69B, 69C, 73 or subsection 81
D
(4) such person may appeal
to the High Court.
(2) Subject to any rules made under section 4 of the Subordinate
Court Rules Act 1955 [Act 55], the procedure in an appeal to the
High Court shall be the procedure in a civil appeal from a Sessions
Court with such modifications as the circumstances may require.
Employee’s remedy when employer about to abscond
78. (1) If any employee complains to a Magistrate that he has
reasonable grounds for believing that his employer, in order to evade


Employment 85
payment of his wages, is about to abscond, the Magistrate may
summon such employer and direct him to show cause why he should
not be required to give security by bond to remain in Malaysia until
such wages are paid; and if, after hearing the evidence of such
employer, the Magistrate decides that such bond shall be given the
Magistrate may order such employer to give security by bond in such
sum as to the Magistrate seems reasonable, that he will not leave
Malaysia until the Magistrate is satisfied that all the just claims of
such employee against him for wages have been paid or settled.
(2) If the employer fails to comply with the terms of such order
to give security, he shall be detained in prison until arrangements
have been made to the satisfaction of the Magistrate for settling the
claims of such employee:
Provided that—
(a) such employer shall be released at any time by the
committing Magistrate on security being furnished or on
his paying either the whole or such part as to the
Magistrate seems reasonable of all just claims of such
employee against him for wages or on the filing of a
petition in bankruptcy by or against him; and
(b) in no case shall the period of such detention exceed three
months.
(3) The bond to be given by an employer shall be a personal bond
with one or more sureties, and the penalty for breach of the bond
shall be fixed with due regard to the circumstances of the case and the
means of the employer.
(4) If on or after a complaint by any employee under subsection
(1) it appears to the Magistrate that there is good ground for believing
that the employer complained against has absconded or is absconding
or is about to abscond, the Magistrate may issue a warrant for the
arrest of such employer and such employer shall be detained in
custody pending the hearing of the complaint unless he finds good
and sufficient security to the satisfaction of the Magistrate for his
appearance to answer the complaint.


(5) For the purposes of this section a certificate purporting to be
signed by the Director General and issued to the Magistrate to the
effect that wages claimed have been paid or settled shall be sufficient
evidence of the payment or settlement thereof.
Powers of Director General to investigate possible offences under
this Act
79. (1) Whenever the Director General has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that an offence under this Act has been committed, or
wishes to inquire into any matter dealt with by this Act or into any
dispute as to such matter or into the death of or injury to an employee
(not the subject of an investigation under the Electricity Supply Act
1990 [Act 447], or the Factories and Machinery Act 1967, or any
written law relating to mining for the time being in force in Malaysia
or any part thereof) or into any matter connected with the
keeping of registers and other documents, or whenever any person
complains to the Director General of any breach of any provision of
this Act, the Director General may summon any person who he has
reason to believe can give information respecting such offence or the
subject matter of such inquiry or complaint.
(2) If upon inquiry as aforesaid the Director General is of opinion
that an offence has been committed, he may institute such criminal
proceedings as he may deem necessary.
(3) A summons issued under this section shall be in such form as
may be prescribed.
Examination on summons by the Director General
80. Any person summoned by the Director General under this Part
shall be legally bound to attend at the time and place specified in the
summons and to answer truthfully all questions which the Director
General may put to him.


Employment 87
Right of employee to appear before Director General
81. No employer shall prevent or attempt to prevent any employee
from appearing before the Director General in pursuance of this Part.
PART XVA
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Interpretation
81 . For the purposes of this Part, ―complaint of sexual harassment‖
A
means any complaint relating to sexual harassment made—
(i) by an employee against another employee;
(ii) by an employee against any employer; or
(iii) by an employer against an employee.
Inquiry into complaints of sexual harassment
81 . (1) Upon receipt of a complaint of sexual harassment, an
B
employer or any class of employers shall inquire into the complaint
in a manner prescribed by the Minister.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), where an employer refuses to inquire
into the complaint of sexual harassment as required under subsection
(1), he shall, as soon as practicable but in any case not later than
thirty days after the date of the receipt of the complaint, inform the
complainant of the refusal and the reasons for the refusal in writing.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), an employer may refuse to
inquire into any complaint of sexual harassment as required under
subsection (1), if—


(a) the complaint of sexual harassment has previously been
inquired into and no sexual harassment has been proven;
or
(b) the employer is of the opinion that the complaint of sexual
harassment is frivolous, vexatious or is not made in good
faith.
(4) Any complainant who is dissatisfied with the refusal of the
employer to inquire into his complaint of sexual harassment, may
refer the matter to the Director General.
(5) The Director General after reviewing the matter referred to him
under subsection (4)—
(a) if he thinks the matter should be inquired into, direct the
employer to conduct an inquiry; or
(b) if he agrees with the decision of the employer not to
conduct the inquiry, inform the person who referred the
matter to him that no further action will be taken.
Findings of inquiry by employer
81 . Where the employer conducts an inquiry into a complaint of
C
sexual harassment received under subsection 81B(1) and the
employer is satisfied that sexual harassment is proven, the employer
shall—
(a) in the case where the person against whom the complaint
of sexual harassment is made is an employee, take
disciplinary action which may include the following:
(i) dismissing the employee without notice;
(ii) downgrading the employee; or
(iii) imposing any other lesser punishment as he
deems just and fit, and where the punishment of


Employment 89
suspension without wages is imposed, it shall not
exceed a period of two weeks; and
(b) in the case where the person against whom the complaint
of sexual harassment is made is a person other than an
employee, recommend that the person be brought before
an appropriate disciplinary authority to which the person
is subject to.
Complaints of sexual harassment made to the Director General
81 . (1) If a complaint of sexual harassment is made to the Director
D
General, the Director General shall assess the complaint and may
direct an employer to inquire into such complaint.
(2) The employer shall inquire into the complaint of sexual
harassment when directed to do so under subsection (1) and submit a
report of the inquiry to the Director General within thirty days from
the date of such direction.
(3) If a complaint of sexual harassment received by the Director
General is made against an employer who is a sole proprietor, the
Director General shall inquire into such complaint himself in a
manner prescribed by the Minister.
(4) Upon inquiry by the Director General of the complaint of
sexual harassment under subsection (3), the Director General shall
decide if sexual harassment is proven or not and such decision shall
be informed to the complainant as soon as practicable.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (3), the Director General may
refuse to inquire into any complaint of sexual harassment received
under subsection (3), if—
(a) the complaint of sexual harassment has previously been
inquired into by the Director General and no sexual
harassment has been proven; or
(b) the Director General is of the opinion that the complaint
of sexual harassment is frivolous, vexatious or is not
made in good faith.


(6) Where the Director General refuses to inquire into the
complaint of sexual harassment received under subsection (3), he
shall, as soon as practicable but in any case not later than thirty days
after the date of the receipt of the complaint, inform the complainant
of the refusal and the reasons for the refusal in writing.
Effects of decisions of the Director General
E
. (1) Where the Director General decides under subsection 81D(4)
that sexual harassment is proven, the complainant may terminate his
contract of service without notice.
(2) If the complainant terminates the contract of service under
subsection (1), the complainant is entitled to—
(a) wages as if the complainant has given the notice of the
termination of contract of service; and
(b) termination benefits and indemnity,
as provided for under the Act or the contract of service, as the case
may be.
Offence
81 . Any employer who fails—
F
(a) to inquire into complaints of sexual harassment under
subsection 81 (1);
B
(b) to inform the complainant of the refusal and the reasons
for the refusal as required under subsection 81 (2);
B
(c) to inquire into complaints of sexual harassment when
directed to do so by the Director General under paragraph
81 (5)(a) or subsection 81 (2); or
B D
(d) to submit a report of inquiry into sexual harassment to the
Director General under subsection 81 (2);
D


Employment 91
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand ringgit.
Application of this Part irrespective of wages of employee
81 . Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of the First Schedule, this Part
G
extends to every employee employed under a contract of service
irrespective of the wages of the employee.
PART XVI
PROCEDURE
Service of summons issued under Part XV
82. (1) Any summons issued by the Director General under Part XV
may be served on any person by delivering or tendering to him a copy
thereof signed by the Director General:
Provided that—
(a) if the person to be summoned cannot be found and has an
agent empowered to accept service of the summons on his
behalf, service on such agent shall be sufficient;
(b) if the person to be summoned cannot be found and has no
agent empowered to accept service of the summons on his
behalf, service on any adult member, not being a domestic
servant, of the family of the person to be summoned who
is residing with him shall be deemed good and sufficient
service.
(2) When such summons is addressed to a corporation, it may be
served—


(a) by leaving a copy thereof, signed by the Director General,
at the registered office, if any, of the corporation;
(b) by sending such copy by registered post in a letter
addressed to the corporation at its principal office,
whether such office be situated within Malaysia or
elsewhere; or
(c) by delivering such copy to any director, secretary or other
principal officer of the corporation.
(3) When such summons is addressed to a firm, it may be
served—
(a) by leaving a copy thereof, signed by the Director General,
at the principal place at which the partnership business is
carried on;
(b) by sending such copy by registered post in a letter
addressed to the firm at its principal office, whether such
office be situated within Malaysia or elsewhere; or
(c) by delivering such copy to any one or more of the partners
in such firm or to any person having, at the time of
service, the control or management of the partnership
business at the principal place at which the partnership
business is carried on within Malaysia.
(4) When the person serving such summons delivers or tenders a
copy of the summons to the person to be summoned or to an agent or
other person on his behalf, he shall require the signature of the person
to whom the copy is so delivered or tendered to an acknowledgement
of service endorsed on the original summons.
(5) If—
(a) such person refuses or is unable to sign the
acknowledgement; or


Employment 93
(b) the serving officer cannot find the person to be summoned
and there is no agent empowered to accept service of the
summons on his behalf nor any other person on whom the
service can be made,
the serving officer shall affix a copy of the summons on the outer
door of the house in which the person to be summoned ordinarily
resides and then return the original to the Director General with a
return endorsed thereon or annexed thereto stating that he has so
affixed the copy and the circumstances under which he did so.
(6) The person serving such summons shall, in all cases in which
the summons has been served under subsection (4) endorse or annex,
or cause to be endorsed or annexed, on or to the original summons a
return stating the time when and the manner in which the summons
was served.
(7) When a summons is returned under subsection (5), the
Director General shall, if the return under that subsection has not
been verified by the affidavit of the person serving it, and may, if it
has been so verified, examine such person on affirmation touching
the manner of service and may make such further inquiry in the
matter as he thinks fit and shall either declare that the summons has
been duly served or order such service as he thinks fit.
(8) When the Director General is satisfied that there is reason to
believe that the person to be summoned is keeping out of the way for
the purpose of avoiding service or that for any other reason the
summons cannot be served in the ordinary way, the Director General
may order the summons to be served by affixing a copy thereof in
some conspicuous place in or near the office of the Director General
and also upon some conspicuous part of the house in which the
person to be summoned is known to have last resided, or in such
other manner as the Director General thinks fit, or may order the
substitution for service of notice by advertisement in the Gazette and
in such local newspaper or newspapers as the Director General may
think fit.


(9) The service substituted by order of the Director General shall
be as effectual as if it had been made personally on the person to be
summoned.
(10) Whenever service is substituted by order of the Director
General, the Director General shall fix such time for the appearance
of the person to be summoned as he may deem fit.
(11) Any order or notice in writing made and issued by the
Director General in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Act
may be served as if the same were a summons, and the provisions of
this section, other than subsection (10) thereof, shall apply to the
service of such order or notice.
Power to make reciprocal provisions between Malaysia and
Singapore for the service, execution and enforcement of
summonses, warrants and orders
83. If the Minister is satisfied that arrangements have been made by
or under any legislation in force in the Republic of Singapore for the
service, execution or enforcement in the Republic of Singapore of
summonses, warrants or orders issued or made under this Act he
may, by regulations made under this Act—
(a) prescribe the procedure for sending such summonses,
warrants and orders to the Republic of Singapore for
service, execution or enforcement, and specify the
conditions under which any such summons shall be
deemed to have been served; and
(b) make reciprocal provisions for the service, execution or
enforcement in Malaysia of summonses, warrants or
orders issued or made in the Republic of Singapore under
any corresponding or similar legislation in force therein.


Employment 95
Jurisdiction
84. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Subordinate Courts Act
1948 [Act 92], all penalties for offences against this Act may be had
and recovered in the Sessions Court or the Court of a First Class
Magistrate on complaint by any person aggrieved or by the Director
General or any person authorized by him in writing in that behalf.
Prosecution
85. No prosecution shall be instituted for an offence under this Act
or any regulation made under this Act without the consent in writing
of the Public Prosecutor.
Right of audience
85A. The Director General, or any officer authorized in writing by the
Director General, shall have the right to appear and be heard before a
Magistrate Court or a Sessions Court in any civil proceedings under
or arising out of this Act, or any regulation made under this Act; and
such right shall include the right to appear and represent an employee
in any such proceedings.
Saving clause as to civil jurisdiction of courts
86. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as preventing any
employer or employee from enforcing his civil rights and remedies
for any breach or non-performance of a contract of service by any
suit in court in any case in which proceedings have not been
instituted before the Director General under section 69, 69B, 69C or
subsection 81D(4) or, if instituted, have been withdrawn.
Power of court imposing fine
87. When under this Act any court imposes a fine or enforces the
payment of any sum secured by bond, the court may, if it thinks fit,


direct that the whole or any part of such fine or sum when recovered
be paid to the party complaining.
Effect of imprisonment
88. From and after the determination of any imprisonment suffered
under this Act for non-payment of the amount of any fine, together
with the costs assessed and directed to be paid by any order of court,
the amount so ordered shall be deemed to be liquidated and
discharged, and the order shall be annulled.
Incapacity of Director General hearing inquiry
89. Where the Director General has, for the purpose of inquiring into
any matter under this Act, taken down any evidence or made any
memorandum and is prevented by death, transfer or other cause from
concluding such inquiry, any successor to such Director General or
other officer may deal with such evidence or memorandum as if he
had taken it down or made it and proceed with the inquiry from the
stage at which such Director General left it.
Officers acting under Act deemed public servants
90. For the purposes of this Act the Director General and any other
officer appointed or acting under this Act shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code [Act 574].
Protection of officers
90A. No action shall lie or be brought, instituted or maintained in any
court against—
(a) the Director General, Deputy Director General or any
other officer duly appointed under this Act for or on
account of or in respect of any act ordered or done for the
purpose of carrying this Act into effect; and


Employment 97
(b) any other person for or on account of or in respect of any
act done or purported to be done by him under the order,
direction or instruction of the Director General, Deputy
Director General or any other officer duly appointed under
this Act,
if the act was done in good faith and in a reasonable belief that it was
necessary for the purpose intended to be served by it.
PART XVII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
Under Parts III and IV
91. Any employer who—
(a) fails to pay the wages or indemnity due to any employee
within the time prescribed in sections 19, 20 and 21;
(b) makes to any employee any advance of wages in excess of
that permitted under section 22; or
(c) makes deductions from the wages of an employee other than
such deductions as are authorized by section 24,
commits an offence.
Under Part V
92. Any employer who—
(a) pays wages, imposes any conditions in a contract of
service or makes any deduction or receives any payment
in contravention of section 25, 25A, 26, 27 or 28; or


(b) provides any employee as part of the terms of his contract
of service with any amenity or service, or any intoxicating
liquor in contravention of section 29,
(c) (Deleted by Act A1026),
commits an offence.
Under Part VIII
93. An employer of a female employee commits an offence if the
female employee is employed contrary to section 34, 35 or 36.
Under Part IX
94. Any employer who—
(a) fails to grant maternity leave to a female employee
employed by him and entitled thereto under Part IX;
(b) fails to pay the maternity allowance to a female employee
employed by him and entitled thereto under Part IX, or to
her nominee, or to her personal legal representative;
(c) fails to pay maternity allowance in the manner prescribed in
section 38; or
(d) contravenes section 42 or 44,
commits an offence, and shall also—
(aa) in the event of a conviction for an offence under paragraph
(a), be ordered by the court before which he is convicted to
pay to the female employee concerned the maternity
allowance to which she may be entitled under Part IX in
respect of every day on which the female employee had
worked during the eligible period referred to in paragraph
37(1)(a), the payment so ordered being in addition to the


Employment 99
wages payable to her, and the amount of maternity
allowance so ordered by the court to be paid shall be
recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by such court; and
(bb) in the event of a conviction for an offence under paragraph
(b), be ordered by the court before which he is convicted to
pay to the female employee concerned the maternity
allowance to which she is entitled under Part IX, and the
amount of maternity allowance so ordered by the court to be
paid shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by
such court.
95. (Deleted by *Act No. 40 of 1966).
96. (Deleted by *Act No. 40 of 1966).
Under Part XIII
97. An employer who—
(a) fails to keep a register required under section 61, or to
preserve the register for a period of not less than six years;
(b) destroys, alters or mutilates the register referred to in
paragraph (a), or causes or permits the register to be
destroyed, altered or mutilated;
(c) fails to comply with any regulations made under section 62;
(d) fails, without reasonable cause (proof of which shall lie on
him), to forward to the Director General such returns as are
prescribed under section 63 or forwards any of the returns
knowing that it contains any false particulars; or
(e) being an owner of any estate, mine or factory to which
section 64 applies, fails to comply with the requirements of
the section,
commits an offence.
*NOTE—The Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [40 of 1966] has since been revised
as the Children and Young Persons (Employment)Act 1966 [Act 350].


Under Part XIV
98. Any person who—
(a) refuses the Director General exercising his powers under
Part XIV, access to any premises or part thereof;
(b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays the Director General
in effecting any entrance into any premises or part thereof
which he is entitled to effect;
(c) furnishes the Director General as true, information which
he knows or has reason to believe to be false; or
(d) fails to produce, or conceals or attempts to conceal any
document which he may be required to produce under Part
XIV, or hinders or obstructs the Director General in
effecting possession of the documents,
commits an offence.
Under Part XV
99. Any employer who prevents or attempts to prevent any employee
from appearing before the Director General under Part XV commits
an offence.
General penalty
99A. Any person who commits any offence under, or contravenes any
provision of, this Act, or any regulations, order, or other subsidiary
legislation whatsoever made thereunder, in respect of which no
penalty is provided, shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand ringgit.


Employment 101
Penalties for failure or non-compliance in relation to rest days,
overtime, holidays, annual leave, and sick leave
100. (1) Any employer who fails to pay to any of his employees
wages for work done by his employee on a rest day or pays wages
less than the rate provided under section 60 commits an offence, and
shall also, on conviction, be ordered by the court before which he is
convicted to pay to the employee concerned the wages due for work
done on every rest day at the rate provided under section 60, and the
amount of such wages shall be recoverable as if it were a fine
imposed by such court.
(2) Any employer who fails to pay to any of his employees any
overtime wages as provided under this Act or any subsidiary
legislation made thereunder commits an offence, and shall also, on
conviction, be ordered by the court before which he is convicted to
pay to the employee concerned the overtime wages due, and the
amount of overtime wages so ordered by the court to be paid shall be
recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by such court.
(3) Any employer who fails to pay to any of his employees wages
as provided under section 60D, commits an offence, and shall also, on
conviction, be ordered by the court before which he is convicted to
pay to the employee concerned the wages due for any work done on
any such holiday at the rate provided under section 60D, and the
amount of wages so ordered by the court to be paid shall be
recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by such court.
(4) Any employer who fails to grant to any of his employees
annual leave or any part thereof as provided under section 60E
commits an offence, and shall also, on conviction, be ordered by the
court before which he is convicted to pay to the employee concerned
the ordinary rate of pay in respect of every day of such leave not so
granted, the payment so ordered being in addition to the wages
payable to the employee for the work done on any such day, and the
amount so ordered by the court to be paid shall be recoverable as if it
were a fine imposed by such court.
(5) Any employer who fails to grant sick leave, or fails to pay
sick leave pay, to any of his employees, as provided under section


60F commits an offence, and shall also, on conviction, be ordered by
the court before which he is convicted to pay to the employee
concerned the sick leave pay for every day of such sick leave at the
rate provided under section 60F, and the amount so ordered by the
court to be paid shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by
such court.
Offence in connection with inquiry or inspection
101. In any inquiry, investigation, entry or inspection made by the
Director General, or by any officer lawfully exercising the powers of
the Director General under this Act, any person committing with
respect to such inquiry, investigation, entry or inspection any offence
described in Chapter X of the Penal Code shall on conviction be
punished as prescribed in such Chapter.
Power to compound offences
101A. (1) The Director General, Deputy Director General or any
officer authorized in writing by the Director General may, with the
consent in writing of the Public Prosecutor, compound any offence
committed by a person which is punishable under this Act or any
regulation made under this Act.
(2) The Director General, Deputy Director General or any
officer authorized in writing by the Director General may, in a case
where he deems it fit and proper so to do, compound an offence by
making a written offer to the person who has committed the offence
to compound the offence on payment to the Director General, Deputy
Director General or any officer authorized in writing by the Director
General, as the case may be, within such time as may be specified in
the offer, of such sum of money, as may be specified in the offer,
which shall not exceed fifty per centum of the amount of the
maximum fine (including the daily fine, if any, in the case of a
continuing offence) to which the person would have been liable if he
had been convicted of the offence.


Employment 103
(3) An offer under subsection (2) may be made at any time
after the offence has been committed, but before any prosecution for
it has been instituted, and where the amount specified in the offer is
not paid within the time specified in the offer, or within such
extended period as the Director General, Deputy Director General or
any officer authorized in writing by the Director General may grant,
prosecution for the offence may be instituted at any time thereafter
against the person to whom the offer was made.
(4) Where an offence has been compounded under subsection
(2)—
(a) no prosecution shall thereafter be instituted in respect of
the offence against the person to whom the offer to
compound was made; and
(b) any book, register or document seized in connection with
the offence shall be released immediately.
(5) Any moneys paid to the Director General, Deputy Director
General or any officer authorized in writing by the Director General
pursuant to subsection (2) shall be paid into and form part of the
Federal Consolidated Fund.
Offence by body corporate, etc.
101B. Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a body
corporate, partnership, society or trade union—
(a) in the case of a body corporate, any person who is a director,
manager, or other similar officer of the body corporate at the
time of the commission of the offence;
(b) in the case of a partnership, every partner in the partnership
at the time of the commission of the offence; and
(c) in the case of a society or trade union, every office-bearer of
the society or trade union at the time of the commission of
the offence,


shall be deemed to have committed the offence and may be charged
jointly or severally in the same proceedings as the body corporate,
partnership, society or trade union.
PART XVIII
REGULATIONS
Regulations
102. (1) The Minister may from time to time make such regulations
as may be necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the
provisions of this Act, or for the further, better or more convenient
implementation of the provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing the
Minister may make regulations—
(a) limiting the powers of officers appointed under subsection
3(2);
(b) prescribing the conditions under which female employees
may work at night;
(c) prescribing the rate of the maternity allowance to which
female employees shall be entitled during the eligible period;
(d) prescribing the maximum period during which notice of
dismissal given by her employer to a female employee who is
absent from her work as a result of illness certified by a
registered medical practitioner to arise out of her pregnancy or
confinement shall not expire;
(da) (Omitted);
(e) (Deleted by *Act No. 40 of 1966);


Employment 105
(f) prescribing the times which employees shall be entitled to
take off from work for meals and which they shall be entitled
or required to take off for rest;
(g) prescribing the form of any register, summons or order
required to be kept, issued or made under this Act;
(h) prescribing the procedure for sending summonses, warrants
and orders issued or made under this Act in Malaysia for
service or execution in the Republic of Singapore, and making
provisions for the service or execution in Malaysia of
summonses, warrants and orders issued or made in the
Republic of Singapore;
(i) prescribing fees to be paid for filing of claims under section
69, 69 or 69 and for copies of notes of evidence recorded
B C
under Parts XV and XV ;
A
(j) prescribing penalties for failure to comply with or
contravention of any regulation made under this section;
(k) prescribing the forms of notice and returns of particulars used
under section 60 ;
K
(l) prescribing the procedure to inquire into complaints of sexual
harassment under Part XV ;
A
(m) prescribing the terms and conditions of service of a domestic
servant.
PART XIX
REPEAL AND SAVING
Repeal and saving
103. The written laws specified in the first and second columns of
the Second Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent set out in the
third column of the said Schedule:
*NOTE—The Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [40 of 1966] has since been revised
as the Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 [Act 350].


Provided that any appointment made under such written law
hereby repealed shall be deemed to be made under this Act:
Provided further that references to any provision of any written
law hereby repealed in any other written law or in any contract or
other instrument in writing shall, in so far as such provision is not
inconsistent with the corresponding provision of this Act, be
construed as references to such corresponding provision.
________________________
FIRST SCHEDULE
[Subsection 2(1)]
Employee Provision of the Act
not applicable
1. Any person, irrespective of his occupation, who
has entered into a contract of service with an employer
under which such person’s wages do not exceed two
thousand ringgit a month.
2. Any person who, irrespective of the amount of
wages he earns in a month, has entered into a contract
of service with an employer in pursuance of which—
(1) he is engaged in manual labour including
such labour as an artisan or apprentice:
Provided that where a person is employed by
one employer partly in manual labour and
partly in some other capacity such person
shall not be deemed to be performing manual
labour unless the time during which he is
required to perform manual labour in any one
wage period exceeds one-half of the total
time during which he is required to work in
such wage period;
(2) he is engaged in the operation or maintenance
of any mechanically propelled vehicle
operated for the transport of passengers or
goods or for reward or for commercial


Employment 107
purposes;
(3) he supervises or oversees other employees
engaged in manual labour employed by the
same employer in and throughout the
performance of their work;
(4) he is engaged in any capacity in any vessel Part XII
registered in Malaysia and who—
(a) is not an officer certificated under the
Merchant Shipping Acts of the United
Kingdom as amended from time to time;
(b) is not the holder of a local certificate as
defined in Part VII of the Merchant
Shipping Ordinance 1952 [F.M.
70/1952]; or
(c) has not entered into an agreement under
Part III of the Merchant Shipping
Ordinance 1952; or
(5) he is engaged as a domestic servant. Sections 12, 14,
16, 22, 61 and 64,
and Parts IX, XII
and XIIA
3. For the purpose of this Schedule ―wages‖ means
wages as defined in section 2, but shall not include
any payment by way of commissions, subsistence
allowance and overtime payment.
_____________
SECOND SCHEDULE
[Section 103]
(1) (2) (3)
S.S Cap. 69 The Labour The whole, except section 1, the
Ordinance definitions under section 2 of
―Agreement‖, ―Employer‖, ―Health
Officer‖, ―Labourer‖, ―Lines‖, ―Local
Authority‖, ―Place of employment‖,
sections 3, 4, 6, 27, 28, 33, 39, 43, 50,


111–113, 123, 124, 143, 145–163,
185–188, 194–196, 198–201,
paragraphs 202(a), (b), (c) and (e),
sections 203– 206, 222–228, 230– 233,
235–237, paragraph 239(1)(e)–(i), (k),
subsections (2)-(4).
F.M.S. Cap. 154 The Labour Code The whole, except section 1, the
definitions under section 2 of
―agreement‖, ―Court‖, ―employer‖,
―Health Officer‖, ―labourer‖, ―lines‖,
―place of employment‖, ―State Medical
and Health Officer‖, sections 3, 4, 70,
71, 76, 82, 87, 91, 117–119, 129, 130,
159–166, 168–191, 197–199, 201–203,
paragraphs 204(a), (b), (c) and (e),
sections 205– 212, 220–222, 224–227,
229, 230, 231, 233, 234, 236,
subparagraphs 238(i)(h)–(k), (ii) (iv).
Johor Enactment The Labour Code The whole, except section 1, the
No. 82 definitions under section 2 of
―agreement‖, ―Court‖, ―employer‖,
―Health Officer‖, ―labourer‖, ―lines‖,
―place of employment‖, sections 3, 4,
5, 71, 72, 77, 83, 88, 92, 119–121, 131,
132, 149–156, 158–181, 187–189,
191–193, paragraphs 194(a), (b), (c)
and (e), sections 195–202, 210–212,
214–217, 219–220, 222, 223, 225,
subparagraphs 227(i)(h)–(k), (ii)–(v).
Kelantan The Labour Code, The whole, except sections 1 and 2, the
Enactment 1936 definitions under section 3 of
No. 2 of 1936 ―Agreement‖, ―Colony‖, ―Court‖,
―Employer‖, ―Health Officer‖,
―Labourer‖, ―Lines‖, ―Medical
Practitioner‖, ―Place of employment‖,
sections 4, 5, 47, 48, 53, 59, 64, 68, 95–
97, 107, 124–131, 133–156, 162–164,
166–168, paragraphs 169(a), (b), (c)
and (e), sections 170–179, 187–189,
191–194, 196–198, 200, 201, 203,
subparagraphs 205(i)(c)– (f), (ii).
Kedah Enactment Enactment No. 55 The whole, except section 1, the
No. 2 of 1345 (Labour) definitions under section 2 of


Employment 109
―Agreement‖, ―Court‖, ―Employer‖,
―Labourer‖, ―Lines‖, ―Health Officer‖,
―Place of employment‖, sections 3, 4,
45, 46, 51, 57, 62, 66, 94–96, 106, 107,
124– 132, 134–157, 163–165, 167–
169, paragraphs 170(a), (b), (c) and (e),
sections 171– 173, 181–183, 185–188,
190, 191, 193, 194, 196, paragraphs
198(1)(b)–(e), subsection (2).
Trengganu The Labour Code The whole, except sections 1 and 2, the
Enactment No. 60 definitions under section 3 of
of 1356 ―agreement‖, ―Court‖, ―employer‖,
―Health Officer‖, ―labourer‖, ―lines‖,
―Medical Officer‖, ―medical
practitioner‖, ―place of employment‖,
sections 4, 5, 47, 48, 53, 59, 64, 68, 95–
97, 107, 124–131, 133–156, 162–164,
166–168, paragraphs 169(a), (b), (c)
and (e), sections 170–179, 187–189,
191–194, 196–198, 200, 201, 203,
subparagraphs 205(i)(c)–(f), (ii).
Perlis Enactment The Labour Code, The whole, except sections 1-3, the
No. 3 of 1345 1345 definitions under section 5 of
―Agreement‖, ―Court‖, ―Employer‖,
―Labourer‖, ―Lines‖, ―Health Officer‖,
―Place of employment‖, sections 6, 7,
47, 48, 53, 59, 64, 67, 95–97, 109, 110,
127–134, 136–159, 165–167, 169–171,
paragraphs 172(a), (b), (c) and (e),
sections 173–175, 183–185, 187–190,
192, 194, 196, 197, 199, subparagraphs
201(i)(b)–(e), (ii).


ACT 265
EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955
LIST OF AMENDMENTS
Amending law Short Title In force from
Ord. 43/1956 Employment 20-12-1956
(Amendment) Ordinance
L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution 13-11-1958
(Modification of Laws)
(Ordinances and
Proclamations) Order
Act 9/1966 Employment 27-01-1966
(Amendment) Act 1966
Act 40/1966 Children and Young 01-10-1966
Persons (Employment)
Act 1966
Act 37/1967 Employment 21-08-1967
(Amendment) Act 1967
P.U. (B) 324/1970 Notification under s. 3 of 01-01-1971
the Titles of Office
Ordinance 1949
Act A91 Employment 01-10-1971
(Amendment) Act 1971
Act A360 Employment 01-01-1977
(Amendment) Act 1976
Act A497 Employment 01-10-1980
(Amendment) Act 1980


Employment 111
Amending law Short Title In force from
Act A610 Employment 01-03-1985
(Amendment) Act 1984
Act A716 Employment 10-02-1989
(Amendment) Act 1989
P.U. (A) 326/1995 Employment (Amendment 01-10-1995
of First Schedule) Order
Act A1026 Employment 01-08-1998
(Amendment) Act 1998
Act A1085 Employment 05-10-2000
(Amendment) Act 2000
P.U. (A) 400/2000 Federal Territory of 01-11-2000
Labuan (Extension and
Modification of
Employment Act) Order
P.U. (A) 279/2002 Revision of Laws 12-07-2002
(Rectification of
Employment Act 1955)
Order 2002
P.U. (A) 380/2002 Revision of Laws 13-09-2002
(Rectification of
Employment Act 1955)
Order 2002
Act A1419 Employment 01-04-2012
(Amendment) Act 2012
P.U.(A) 88/2012 Employment (Amendment 01-04-2012
of First Schedule) order
_____________


ACT 265
EMPLOYMENT ACT 1955
LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED
Section Amending authority In force from
2 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
2A Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A1026 01-08-1998
2B Act A360 01-01-1977
3 Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
4 Act A1419 01-04-2012
6 Act A360 01-01-1977
7 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
7A Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
7B Act A497 01-10-1980


Employment 113
Section Amending authority In force from
12 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A497 01-10-1980
13 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A497 01-10-1980
14 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
15 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
16 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
17 Act A360 01-10-1977
17A Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A360 01-10-1977
18 Act A1026 01-08-1998
19 Act A1419 01-04-2012
20 Act A497 01-10-1980
21 Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
22 Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
24 Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
PART V Act A1419 01-04-2012
25 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A1419 01-04-2012


Section Amending authority In force from
25A Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
27 Act A497 01-10-1980
29 Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
30 Act A1026 01-08-1998
31 Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1085 05-10-2000
Act A1419 01-04-2012
32 Act A1085 05-10-2000
PART VII Act A1419 01-04-2012
33 Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A1026 01-08-1998
33A Act A1419 01-04-2012
34 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A716 10-02-1989
36 Act A360 01-10-1977
37 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A860 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A610 01-03-1985
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
38 Act A360 01-10-1977
39 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
40 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956


Employment 115
Section Amending authority In force from
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
42 Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1419 01-04-2012
43 Act A360 01-10-1977
44 Act A360 01-10-1977
44A Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1419 01-04-2012
52 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
53 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
56 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
57 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
57A-57B Act A1419 01-04-2012
58 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
58A Act A91 01-10-1971
59 Ord. 43/1956 20-11-1958
Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
60 Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1419 01-04-2012
60A Act A91 01-10-1971


Section Amending authority In force from
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1085 05-10-2000
60B Act A91 01-10-1971
60C Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
60D Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1085 05-10-2000
Act A1419 01-04-2012
60E Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-01-1997
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
60F Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
60G Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-01-1977
60H Act A360 01-10-1977
60I Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1085 05-10-2000
Act A1419 01-04-2012


Employment 117
Section Amending authority In force from
60J Act A91 01-10-1971
Act A360 01-10-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
PART XIIB Act A1026 01-08-1998
60K Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
60L Act A1026 01-08-1998
60M Act A1026 01-08-1998
60N Act A1026 01-08-1998
60O Act A1026 01-08-1998
61 Act 9/1966 27-01-1966
Act 37/1967 21-08-1967
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A1026 01-08-1998
63 Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1085 05-10-2000
63A Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
64 Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A1026 01-08-1998
65 Act A360 01-01-1977
67 Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
69 Act 37/1967 21-08-1967
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012


Section Amending authority In force from
69A Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
69B Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
69C Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1085 05-10-2000
69D Act A1026 01-08-1998
69E Act A1026 01-08-1998
70 Act A1026 01-08-1998
73 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A1026 01-08-1988
Act A1419 01-04-2012
75 Act A497 01-10-1980
76 Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
77 Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
79 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A1419 01-04-2012
PART XVA Act A1419 01-04-2012
81A-81G Act A1419 01-04-2012
82 Act A1419 01-04-2012
85 Act 37/1967 21-08-1967
Act A1026 01-08-1998
85A Act A1026 01-08-1998
86 Act 37/1967 21-08-1967
Act A1419 01-04-2012
90A Act A1419 01-04-2012


Employment 119
Section Amending authority In force from
PART XVII Act A360 01-01-1977
91 Act A1026 01-08-1998
92 Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1026 01-08-1998
93 Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A1026 01-08-1998
94 Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1026 01-08-1998
95 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act 40/1966 01-10-1966
96 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act 40/1966 01-10-1966
97 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act 37/1967 21-08-1967
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1026 01-08-1998
98 Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
99 Act A1026 01-08-1998
99A Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1026 01-08-1998
100 Act 40/1966 01-10-1966
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A1026 01-08-1998
101A Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
101B Act A1419 01-04-2012
102 Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act 40/1966 01-10-1966
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980


Section Amending authority In force from
Act A716 10-02-1989
Act A1026 01-08-1998
Act A1419 01-04-2012
First Schedule Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
Act A360 01-01-1977
Act A497 01-10-1980
Act A610 01-03-1985
Act A716 01-02-1989
P.U. (A) 326/1995 01-10-1995
P.U. (A) 88/2012 01-04-2012
Second Schedule Ord. 43/1956 20-12-1956
_____________