ONLINE VERSION OF UPDATED
TEXT OF REPRINT
Act 53
INCOME TAX ACT 1967
As at 1 November 2023
This text is ONLY AN UPDATED TEXT of the Income Tax Act 1967 by the Attorney
General’s Chambers. Unless and until reprinted pursuant to the powers of the
Commissioner of Law Revision under subsection 14(1) of the Revision of Laws Act
1968 [Act 1], this text is NOT AN AUTHENTIC TEXT.


INCOME TAX ACT 1967
First enacted … … … … 1967 (Act No. 47 of
1967)
Revised … … … … 1971 (Act 53 w .e. f.
21 October 1971)
Latest amendment
made by
Act 845 which came
into operation on … … … … See section 3 of
Act 845
PREVIOUS REPRINTS
First Reprint … … … … 1980
Second Reprint … … … … 1993
Third Reprint … … … … 2002
Fourth Reprint … … … … 2006


Act 53
INCOME TAX ACT 1967
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY
Section
1. Short title and commencement
2. Interpretation
PART II
IMPOSITION AND GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS
OF THE TAX
3. Charge of income tax
3A. (Deleted)
3B. Non-chargeability to tax in respect of offshore business activity
3C. (Deleted)
4. Classes of income on which tax is chargeable
4A. Special classes of income on which tax is chargeable
4B. Non-business income
4C. Gains or profits from a business arising from stock in trade parted with by any
element of compulsion
5. Manner in which chargeable income is to be ascertained
6. Rates of tax
6A. Tax rebate
6B. (Deleted)
6C. (Deleted)


Section
6D. Tax rebate for company or limited liability partnership
7. Residence: individuals
8. Residence: companies and bodies of persons
9. (Deleted)
10. (Deleted)
11. (Deleted)
12. Derivation of business income in certain cases
13. General provisions as to employment income
13A. (Deleted)
14. General provisions as to dividend income
15. Derivation of interest and royalty income in certain cases
15A. Derivation of special classes of income in certain cases
15B. Derivation of gains or profits in certain cases
16. Voluntary pensions, etc.
17. Derivation of pensions, etc.
PART III
ASCERTAINMENT OF CHARGEABLE INCOME
Chapter 1—Preliminary
18. Interpretation of Part III
19. Supplementary provisions for the interpretation of Part III
Chapter 2—Basis years and basis periods
20. Basis years
21. Basis period of a person other than a company, limited liability partnership,
trust body or co-operative society
21A. Basis period of a company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society


Income Tax 5
Chapter 3—Gross income
Section
22. Gross income generally
23. Interpretation of sections 24 to 28
24. Basis period to which gross income from a business is related
25. Basis period to which gross income from an employment is related
26. Basis period to which gross income in respect of dividend is related
27. Basis period to which gross income in respect of interest, etc., is related
28. Basis period to which gross income not provided for by sections 24 to 27 is
related
29. Basis period to which income obtainable on demand is related
30. Special provisions applicable to gross income from a business
31. (Deleted)
32. Special provisions applicable to gross income from an employment
Chapter 4—Adjusted income and adjusted loss
33. Adjusted income generally
34. Special provisions applicable to adjusted income from a business
34A. Special deduction for research and development expenditure
34B. Special deduction for contribution to an approved research institute or
payment for use of services of an approved research institute or company
34C. Special provision applicable to adjusted income from a discount or premium
34D. Special deduction for expenditure on treasury shares
35. Stock in trade
36. Power to direct special treatment in the computation of business income in
certain cases
37. (Deleted)
38. Special provisions applicable to adjusted income from an employment
38A. Limitation on deduction of entertainment expenses
39. Deductions not allowed
40. Adjusted loss
41. Ascertainment of adjusted income or adjusted loss from a business for an
accounting period


Chapter 5—Statutory income
Section
42. Statutory income
Chapter 6—Aggregate income and total income
43. Aggregate income
44. Total income
44A. Group relief for companies
44B. Carry-back losses
Chapter 7—Chargeable income
45. Chargeable income and aggregation of husband’s and wife’s income
45A. Deduction for husband
46. Deduction for individual and Hindu joint family
46A. (Deleted)
46B. Deduction for individual on interest expended
47. Deduction for wife or former wife
48. Deduction for children
49. Deduction for insurance premiums
50. Application of section 49 where husband and wife are living together
51. Deduction must be claimed
Chapter 8—Special cases
52. Modification of Part III in certain special cases
53. Trade associations
53A. Club, association or similar institution
54. Sea and air transport undertakings
54A. Exemption of shipping profits
54B. (Deleted)
55. Partnerships generally
56. Successive partnerships
57. Provisions applicable where partnership is a partner in another partnership


Income Tax 7
Section
58. Income receivable by partnership otherwise than from partnership business
59. Partnership losses
60. Insurance business
60A. Reinsurance: chargeable income, reduced rate and exempt dividend
60AA. Takaful business
60AB. Chargeable income of life fund subject to tax
60B. (Deleted)
60C. Banking business
60D. (Deleted)
60E. (Deleted)
60F. Investment holding company
60FA. Investment holding company listed on Bursa Malaysia
60G. Foreign fund management company
60H. Closed-end fund company
60I. Company that establishes special purpose vehicle
61. Trusts generally
61A. Exemption of Real Estate Investment Trust of Property Trust Fund
62. Discretionary trusts
63. Trust annuities
63A. Special deduction for qualifying capital expenditure
63B. Special deduction for expenses
63C. Special treatment on rent from the letting of real property of a Real Estate
Investment Trust or Property Trust Fund
63D. Income of a unit trust from the letting of real property is not income from a
business
64. Estates under administration
65. Settlements
65A. Co-operative Societies
65B. Incentive scheme


PART IV
PERSONS CHARGEABLE
Section
66. Personal chargeability: general principle
66A. Tax identification number
67. Vicarious responsibility and chargeability
68. Power to appoint agent
69. Incapacitated persons
70. Non-residents
71. Masters of ships and captains of aircraft
72. Hindu joint families
73. Trustees
74. Executors
75. Companies and bodies of persons
75A. Director’s liability
75B. Limited liability partnership and business trust
76. Rulers and Ruling Chiefs
PART V
RETURNS
77. Return of income by a person other than a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society
77A. Return of income by every company, limited liability partnership, trust body
or co-operative society
77B. Amendment of return
77C. Deduction of tax as final tax
78. Power to call for specific returns and production of books
79. Power to call for statement of bank accounts, etc.
80. Power of access to buildings and documents, etc.
81. Power to call for information
82. Duty to keep records and give receipts
82A. Duty to keep documents for ascertaining chargeable income and tax payable


Income Tax 9
Section
83. Return by employer
83A. Duty to furnish particulars of payment made to an agent, etc.
84. Return concerning persons other than the maker of the return
85. Return by occupiers
86. Return by partnership
87. Power to call for further return
88. Returns deemed to be made with due authority
89. Change of address
PART VI
ASSESSMENTS AND APPEALS
Chapter 1—Assessments
90. Assessments generally
91. Assessments and additional assessments in certain cases
91A. Deemed assessment on the amended return
92. Advance assessments
93. Form and making of assessments
94. Record of assessments
95. Discharge of double assessments
96. Notice of assessment
96A. Composite assessment
97. Finality of assessment
97A. Notification of non-chargeability
Chapter 2—Appeals
98. The Special Commissioners and the Secretary
99. Right of appeal
100. Extension of time for appeal
101. Review by Director General
102. Disposal of appeals


PART VII
COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX
Section
103. Payment of tax
103A. (Deleted)
103B. Tax payable notwithstanding institution of proceedings under any other
written law
104. Recovery from persons leaving Malaysia
105. Refusal of customs clearance in certain cases
106. Recovery by suit
106A. Power to call for bank account information for purpose of making garnishee
order application
107. Deduction of tax from emoluments and pensions
107A. Deduction of tax from contract payment
107B. Payment by instalments
107C. Estimate of tax payable and payment by instalments for companies
107D. Deduction of tax from payment made to agent, etc.
108. Non-deduction of tax from dividend
109. Deduction of tax from interest or royalty in certain cases
109A. Application of sections 109 and 110 to income derived by a public entertainer
109B. Deduction of tax from special classes of income in certain cases derived from
Malaysia
109C. Deduction of tax from interest paid to a resident
109D. Deduction of tax on the distribution of income of a unit trust
109DA. Deduction of tax on distribution of income of unit trust to unit holder other
than individual
109E. Deduction of tax on the distribution of income of a family fund, etc.
109F. Deduction of tax from gains or profits in certain cases derived from Malaysia
109G. Deduction of tax from income derived from withdrawal of a deferred annuity
or a private retirement scheme
109H. Appeal by the payer
110. Set-off for tax deducted
110A. (Deleted)


Income Tax 11
Section
110B. Set-off for tax charged on actuarial surplus
110C. Set-off for tax charged on actuarial surplus under takaful business
111. Refund of over-payments
111A. (Deleted)
PART VIIA
FUND FOR TAX REFUND
111B. Establishment of Fund for Tax Refund
111C. Non applicability of section 14A of the Financial Procedure Act 1957
111D. Compensation for over-payment of tax
PART VIII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
112. Failure to furnish return or give notice of chargeability
112A. Failure to furnish country-by-country report
113. Incorrect returns
113A. Incorrect returns, information returns or reports
113B. Failure to furnish contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation
114. Wilful evasion
115. Leaving Malaysia without payment of tax
116. Obstruction of officers
117. Breach of confidence
118. Offences by officials
119. Unauthorized collection
119A. Failure to keep records
119B. Failure to comply with rules made under paragraph 154(1)(c) on mutual
administrative assistance
120. Other offences
121. Additional provisions as to offences under sections 113, 115, 116, 118 and 120
122. Tax, etc., payable notwithstanding institution of proceedings
123. (Deleted)


Section
124. Power to compound offences and abate or remit penalties
125. Recovery of penalties imposed under Part VIII
126. Jurisdiction of subordinate court
PART IX
EXEMPTIONS, REMISSION AND OTHER RELIEF
127. Exemptions from tax: general
127A. Cessation of exemption
128. (Deleted)
129. Remission of tax
129A. Other relief
130. (Deleted)
131. Relief in respect of error or mistake
131A. Relief other than in respect of error or mistake
132. Double taxation arrangements
132A. Tax information exchange arrangements
132B. Mutual administrative assistance arrangement
132C. International obligations
133. Unilateral relief from double taxation
PART IXA
SPECIAL INCENTIVE RELIEF
133A. Special incentive relief
PART X
SUPPLEMENTAL
Chapter 1—Administration
134. The Director General and his staff
135. Power of Minister to give directions to Director General
136. Delegation of Director General’s functions


Income Tax 13
Section
137. Identification of officials
138. Certain materials to be treated as confidential
Chapter 1A—Ruling
138A. Public ruling
138B. Advance ruling
138C. Advance Pricing Arrangement
Chapter 2—Controlled companies and powers to protect
the revenue in case of certain transactions
139. Controlled companies
140. Power to disregard certain transactions
140A. Power to substitute the price on certain transactions
140B. Special provision applicable to loan or advances to director
140C. Restriction on deductibility of interest
141. Powers regarding certain transactions by non-residents
Chapter 3—Miscellaneous
142. Evidential provisions
142A. Admissibility of electronic record
143. Errors and defects in assessments, notices and other documents
144. Power to direct where returns, etc., are to be sent
145. Service of notices
146. Authentication of notices and other documents
147. Free postage
148. Provisions as to approvals and directions given by Minister or Director
General
149. Annulment of rules and orders laid before the Dewan Rakyat
150. Power to approve pension or provident fund, scheme or society
151. Procedure for making refunds and repayments
152. Forms
152A. Electronic medium


Section
153. Restriction on persons holding themselves out as tax agents, tax consultants,
etc.
154. Power to make rules
154A. Power to enter into an agreement with regard to tax liability
155. Repeals
156. Transitional and saving provisions
SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2
SCHEDULE 3
SCHEDULE 4
SCHEDULE 4A – (Deleted)
SCHEDULE 4B
SCHEDULE 4C – (Deleted)
SCHEDULE 5
SCHEDULE 6
SCHEDULE 7
SCHEDULE 7A
SCHEDULE 7B
SCHEDULE 8
SCHEDULE 9


Act 53
INCOME TAX ACT 1967
An Act for the imposition of income tax.
[Throughout Malaysia—28 September 1967]
PART I
PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Income Tax Act 1967.
(2) (Omitted).
(3) This Act shall have effect for the year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment.
Interpretation
2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“adjusted income”, in relation to a source and a basis period, means
adjusted income ascertained in accordance with this Act;
“adjusted loss”, in relation to a source and a basis period, means
adjusted loss ascertained in accordance with this Act;
“aggregate income”, in relation to a person and a year of assessment,
means aggregate income ascertained in accordance with this Act;


“amended return” means an amended return made in accordance with
section 77B;
“approved loan” means—
(a) any loan or credit made to the Government, State
Government (including any loan or credit made to a
person other than the Government or State Government
where the loan or credit is guaranteed by the
Government or State Government), local authority or
statutory body; or
(b) any loan or credit other than a loan or credit of the kind
specified in paragraph (a), made to a person pursuant to
an application received prior to 25 October 1996 where
the amount of such loan or credit exceeds two hundred
and fifty million ringgit,
by a person pursuant to an application received prior to 25 October 1996
not resident in Malaysia:
Provided that—
(i) the loan or credit has been approved by the
Minister of Finance; and
(ii) the loan or credit agreement was executed in
Malaysia or where the loan or credit agreement
with the prior approval of the Minister was
executed outside Malaysia;
“approved operational headquarters company” has the meaning
assigned thereto by section 60E;
“approved scheme” means the Employees Provident Fund, private
retirement scheme or any pension or provident fund, scheme or society
approved by the Director General under section 150;


Income Tax 17
“assessment” means any assessment or additional assessment made
under this Act;
“authorized officer” means, within the scope of his authority—
(a) an officer authorized by subsections 136(1) to (4) to
exercise any function of the Director General; or
(b) an officer authorized under subsection 136(5) to exercise
or assist in exercising any such function;
“basis period”, in relation to a person, a source of his and a year of
assessment, means such basis period, if any, as is ascertained in
accordance with section 21 or 21A;
“basis year” has the meaning assigned by section 20;
“body of persons” means an unincorporated body of persons (not
being a company), including a Hindu joint family but excluding a
partnership;
“building” includes any structure erected on land (not being plant or
machinery);
“business” includes profession, vocation and trade and every
manufacture, adventure or concern in the nature of trade, but excludes
employment;
“business trust” has the same meaning assigned to it in the Capital
Markets and Services Act 2007 [Act 671];
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Malaysia established
under section 3 of the Central Bank of Malaysia Act 2009 [Act 701];
“chargeable income” in relation to a person and a year of assessment,
means chargeable income ascertained in accordance with this Act;


“company” means a body corporate and includes any body of persons
established with a separate legal identity by or under the laws of a
territory outside Malaysia and a business trust;
“composite assessment” means a composite assessment made in
accordance with section 96A;
“controlled company” means a company having not more than fifty
members and controlled, in the manner described by section 139, by
not more than five persons;
“co-operative society” means any co-operative society registered
under any written law relating to the registration of co-operative
societies in Malaysia;
“deferred annuity” means deferred annuity contracted on or after
1 January 2014 issued by insurers licensed under the Financial
Services Act 2013 [Act 758] or takaful operators registered under
the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 [Act 759], and contains the
Retirement Saving Standards approved by the Central Bank;
“director”, in relation to a company, includes any person occupying
the position of director (by whatever name called), any person in
accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors are
accustomed to act and any person who—
(a) is a manager of the company or otherwise concerned in
the management of the company’s business;
(b) is remunerated out of the funds of that business; and
(c) is, either on his own or with one or more associates
within the meaning of subsection 139(7), the beneficial
owner of (or able directly or through the medium of
other companies or by any other indirect means to
control) twenty per cent or more of the ordinary share
capital of the company (“ordinary share capital” here
meaning all the issued share capital of the company, by
whatever name called, other than capital the holders


Income Tax 19
whereof have a right to a dividend at a fixed rate but have
no other right to share in the profits of the company);
“Director General” means the Director General of Inland Revenue
referred to in section 134;
“employee”, in relation to an employment, means—
(a) where the relationship of master and servant subsists, the
servant;
(b) where that relationship does not subsist, the holder of the
appointment or office which constitutes the
employment;
“employer”, in relation to an employment, means—
(a) where the relationship of master and servant subsists, the
master;
(b) where that relationship does not subsist, the person who
pays or is responsible for paying any remuneration to the
employee who has the employment, notwithstanding
that that person and the employee may be the same
person acting in different capacities;
“employment” means—
(a) employment in which the relationship of master and
servant subsists;
(b) any appointment or office, whether public or not and
whether or not that relationship subsists, for which
remuneration is payable;
“executor” means the executor, administrator or other person
administering or managing the estate of a deceased person;
“foreign tax” means any tax on income (or any other tax of
a substantially similar character) chargeable or imposed by or


under the laws of a territory outside Malaysia and in relation to
paragraph 132(4)(d) or section 132A includes other taxes of every kind
imposed by or under the laws of that territory;
“Hindu joint family” means what in any system of law prevailing in
India is known as a Hindu joint family or coparcenary;
“husband who elects” means the husband who is referred to in
paragraph 45(2)(b);
“incapacitated person” means a minor or a person adjudged under
any law to be in a state of unsoundness of mind (however described);
“individual” means a natural person;
“Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia” means the Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia established under the Inland Revenue Board of
Malaysia Act 1995 [Act 533];
“input tax” has the same meaning assigned to it in the *Goods and
Services Tax Act 2014 [Act 762];
“Labuan business activity” has the meaning assigned to it in the
Labuan Business Activity Tax Act 1990 [Act 445];
“Labuan company” means a Labuan entity as provided under
subsection 2B(1) of the Labuan Business Activity Tax Act 1990;
“lease” includes a sublease, a tenancy for three years or less and any
agreement for a lease or sublease;
“limited liability partnership” means a limited liability
partnership registered under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act
2012 [Act 743];
*NOTE—The Goods and Services Act 2014 [Act 762] has since been repealed by the Goods and Services
Tax (Repeal) Act 2018 [Act 805] which comes into operation on 1 September 2018–see section 3 of
Act 805.


Income Tax 21
“Malaysia” means the territories of the Federation of Malaysia, the
territorial waters of Malaysia and the sea-bed and subsoil of the
territorial waters, and the airspace above such areas, and includes any
area extending beyond the limits of the territorial waters of Malaysia,
and the sea-bed and subsoil of any such area, which has been or may
hereafter be designated under the laws of Malaysia as an area over
which Malaysia has sovereign rights or jurisdiction for the purposes of
exploring and exploiting the natural resources, whether living or
non-living;
“market value”, in relation to any thing, means the price which that
thing would fetch if sold in a transaction between independent persons
dealing at arm's length;
“Minister” means the Minister for the time being charged with the
responsibility for finance;
“output tax” has the same meaning assigned to it in the Goods and
Services Tax Act 2014;
“partnership” means an association of any kind (including joint
adventures, syndicates and cases where a party to the association is
itself a partnership) between parties who have agreed to combine any
of their rights, powers, property, labour or skill for the purpose of
carrying on a business and sharing the profits therefrom, but excludes
a Hindu joint family although such a family may be a partner in a
partnership, a limited liability partnership and any association which
is established pursuant to a scheme of financing in accordance with the
principles of Syariah;
“permanent total disablement” has the same meaning assigned to it
in the Employees’ Social Security Act 1969 [Act 4];
“person” includes a company, a body of persons, a limited liability
partnership and a corporation sole;
“premises” means a building (or, where a building is divided into
separate parts used or capable of being used as separate residential flats


or otherwise as separate tenements, any one of those parts) and
includes—
(a) any other building or part of a building used or intended
to be used in conjunction therewith as domestic offices
or for some other ancillary purpose; and
(b) any land attached thereto for use by way of amenity as
garden or grounds;
“prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under section 154
or, in relation to a form other than the form mentioned in
subsection 138(1), prescribed under section 152;
“private retirement scheme” means a retirement scheme approved by
the Securities Commission in accordance with the Capital Markets and
Services Act 2007 [Act 671];
“public entertainer” includes—
(a) a compere, model, circus performer, lecturer, speaker,
sportsperson, an artiste or individual exercising any
profession, vocation or employment of a similar nature;
or
(b) an individual who uses his intellectual, artistic, musical,
personal or physical skill or character in,
carrying out any activity in connection with any purpose through live,
print, electronic, satellite, cable, fibre optic or other medium, for film
or tape, or for television or radio broadcast, as the case may be;
“rent” includes any sum paid for the use or occupation of any
premises or part thereof or for the hire of any thing;
“research and development” means any systematic, investigative and
experimental study that involves novelty or technical risk carried out
in the field of science or technology with the object of acquiring new
knowledge or using the results of the study for the production or


Income Tax 23
improvement of materials, devices, products, produce, or processes,
but does not include―
(a) quality control or routine testing of materials, devices or
products;
(b) research in the social sciences or the humanities;
(c) routine data collection;
(d) efficiency surveys or management studies;
(e) market research or sales promotion;
(f) routine modifications or changes to materials, devices,
products, processes or production methods; or
(g) cosmetic modifications or stylistic changes to materials,
devices, products, processes or production methods;
“resident” means resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment by virtue of section 7 or 8;
“royalty” includes any sums paid as consideration for, or derived
from—
(a) the use of, or the right to use in respect of, any
copyrights, software, artistic or scientific works, patents,
designs or models, plans, secret processes or formulae,
trademarks or other like property or rights;
(b) the use of, or the right to use, tapes for radio or television
broadcasting, motion picture films, films or video tapes
or other means of reproduction where such films or tapes
have been or are to be used or reproduced in Malaysia,
or other like property or rights;


(c) the use of, or the right to use, know-how or information
concerning technical, industrial, commercial or
scientific knowledge, experience or skill;
(d) the reception of, or the right to receive, visual images or
sounds, or both, transmitted to the public by—
(i) satellite; or
(ii) cable, fibre optic or similar technology;
(e) the use of, or the right to use, visual images or sounds,
or both, in connection with television broadcasting or
radio broadcasting, transmitted by—
(i) satellite; or
(ii) cable, fibre optic or similar technology;
(f) the use of, or the right to use, some or all of the part of
the radiofrequency spectrum specified in a relevant
licence;
(g) a total or partial forbearance in respect of—
(i) the use of, or the granting of the right to use, any
such property or right as is mentioned in paragraph
(a) or (b) or any such knowledge, experience or
skill as is mentioned in paragraph (c);
(ii) the reception of, or the granting of the right to
receive, any such visual images or sounds as are
mentioned in paragraph (d);
(iii) the use of, or the granting of the right to use, any
such visual images or sounds as are mentioned in
paragraph (e); or


Income Tax 25
(iv) the use of, or the granting of the right to use, some
or all such part of the spectrum specified in a
spectrum licence as is mentioned in paragraph (f);
or
(h) the alienation of any property, know-how or information
mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this definition;
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Special Commissioners;
“Securities Commission” means the Securities Commission
established under section 3 of the Securities Commission Malaysia
Act 1993 [Act 498];
“serious disease” means acquired immunity deficiency syndrome,
Parkinson’s disease, cancer, renal failure, leukemia or other similar
diseases;
“service director”, in relation to a company, means a director (not
being a person to whom, together with his associates within the
meaning of subsection 139(7), if any, there would be distributed, on
the distribution of a dividend by the company, more than five per cent
of the dividend) who is employed in the service of the company in a
managerial or technical capacity, and is not, either on his own or with
any associate within that meaning, the beneficial owner of (or able
directly or through the medium of other companies or by any other
indirect means to control) more than five per cent of the ordinary share
capital of the company (“ordinary share capital” here having the same
meaning as in the definition of “director” in this subsection);
“share”, in relation to a company, includes stock other than debenture
stock;
“source” means a source of income;
“Special Commissioners” means the Special Commissioners of
Income Tax referred to in section 98;


“statutory authority” means any authority or body established by or
under a written law (not being an authority or body established under
the *Companies Act 1965 [Act 125], or any written law of a
corresponding kind in force before the commencement of that Act in
any place comprised in Malaysia on 1 January 1968) to discharge any
functions of a public nature, including the provision of public utility
and similar services;
“statutory income”, in relation to a person, a source and a year of
assessment, means statutory income ascertained in accordance with
this Act;
“statutory order” means an order having legislative effect;
“stock in trade”, in relation to a business, means property of any
description, whether movable or immovable, being either—
(a) property such as is sold in the ordinary course of the
business or would be so sold if it were mature or if its
manufacture, preparation or construction were complete;
or
(b) materials such as are used in the manufacture,
preparation or construction of any such property as is
referred to in paragraph (a) of this definition,
and includes any work in progress;
“sukuk” has the same meaning assigned to it in the Capital Markets
and Services Act 2007;
“tax” means the tax imposed by this Act;
“total income”, in relation to a person and a year of assessment,
means total income ascertained in accordance with this Act;
*NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [Act 125] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016
[Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017–see subsection 620(1) of Act 777.


Income Tax 27
“treasury share” means a share of a company that was previously
issued but was repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired by such
company and not cancelled;
“trust body”, in relation to a trust, means the trust body provided for
by section 61;
“wife” means a woman who (whether or not she has gone through
any religious or other ceremony) is regarded by virtue of any law or
custom as the wife of a man or as one of his wives;
“wife who elects” means the wife who is referred to in
paragraph 45(2)(a);
“year of assessment”, subject to subsection (5), means calendar year.
(2) Any reference in this Act to income shall, if the income is not
described as being income of a particular kind, be construed as a
reference to income generally or to gross, adjusted, statutory,
aggregate, total or chargeable income as the context and circumstances
may require.
(3) Unless the context otherwise requires, “payable for” and
“receivable for”, when used in this Act with reference to a period,
mean payable or receivable, as the case may be, for that period or any
part thereof.
(4) Where—
(a) two or more companies are related within the meaning
of section 6 of the *Companies Act 1965;
(b) a company is so related to another company which is
itself so related to a third company;
(c) the same persons hold more than fifty per cent of the
shares in each of two or more companies; or
*NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [Act 125] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016
[Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017–see subsection 620(1) of Act 777.


(d) each of two or more companies is so related to at least
one of two or more companies to which paragraph (c)
applies,
all the companies in question are in the same group for the purposes of
this Act.
(5) References in this Act to a year or years of assessment shall be
construed (except where Schedule 9 provides otherwise) as references
to a year or years of assessment in relation to which this Act has effect
by virtue of subsection 1(3).
(6) For the purposes of this Act—
(a) the reference to tax in paragraph 79(e) shall be deemed
to include a reference to any tax imposed by any of the
repealed laws (“repealed laws” in this subsection having
the same meaning as in Schedule 9);
(b) the reference to this Act in section 81, paragraph 116(c)
and section 153 shall be deemed to include references to
each of the repealed laws; and
(c) the reference to functions under this Act in
paragraph 116(b) shall be deemed to include a reference
to functions under any of the repealed laws exercised by
virtue of this Act.
(7) Any reference in this Act to interest shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to gains or profits received and expenses incurred, in lieu of
interest, in transactions conducted in accordance with the Syariah.
(8) Subject to subsection (7), any reference in this Act to the
disposal of an asset or a lease shall exclude any disposal of an asset or
lease by or to a person pursuant to a scheme of financing approved by
the Central Bank, the Labuan Financial Services Authority or the
Malaysia Co-operative Societies Commission, or approved or
authorized by, or lodged with, the Securities Commission as a scheme
which is in accordance with the principles of Syariah where such


Income Tax 29
disposal is strictly required for the purpose of complying with those
principles but which will not be required in any other schemes of
financing.
(9) Any reference—
(a) in subsection 107C(4A), to a company which has a paid-
up capital in respect of ordinary shares of two million
five hundred thousand ringgit and less at the beginning
of the basis period for a year of assessment; and
(b) in paragraph 2A of Schedule 1 and paragraph 19A of
Schedule 3, to a company which has a paid-up capital in
respect of ordinary shares of two million five hundred
thousand ringgit and less at the beginning of the basis
period for a year of assessment and gross income from
source or sources consisting of a business not exceeding
fifty million ringgit for the basis period for that year of
assessment,
shall exclude a business trust and a company which is established for
the issuance of asset-backed securities in a securitization transaction
approved by the Securities Commission.
(10) Any reference in this Act to—
(a) “Labuan Offshore Business Activity Tax Act 1990” is
construed as reference to “Labuan Business Activity Tax
Act 1990”;
(b) “Labuan Offshore Financial Services Authority” is
construed as reference to “Labuan Financial Services
Authority”;
(c) “offshore business activity” is construed as reference to
“Labuan business activity”;
(d) “Offshore Companies Act 1990” is construed as
reference to “Labuan Companies Act 1990”; and


(e) “offshore company” is construed as reference to
“Labuan company”.
(11) In relation to a business trust, any reference in this Act to shares
or ordinary share capital, shareholders and dividend shall be read as
including a reference to units or derivatives of units, unit holders and
distributions, respectively.
PART II
IMPOSITION AND GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE TAX
Charge of income tax
3. Subject to and in accordance with this Act, a tax to be known as
income tax shall be charged for each year of assessment upon the
income of any person accruing in or derived from Malaysia or received
in Malaysia from outside Malaysia.
3A. (Deleted by Act 451).
Non-chargeability to tax in respect of offshore business activity
3B. Notwithstanding section 3, tax shall not be charged under this Act
on income in respect of an offshore business activity carried on by an
offshore company, other than an offshore company (in this Act
referred to as “chargeable offshore company”), which has made an
election under section 3A of the Labuan Offshore Business Activity
Tax Act 1990.
3C. (Deleted by Act 578).


Income Tax 31
Classes of income on which tax is chargeable
4. Subject to this Act, the income upon which tax is chargeable under
this Act is income in respect of—
(a) gains or profits from a business, for whatever period of
time carried on;
(b) gains or profits from an employment;
(c) dividends, interest or discounts;
(d) rents, royalties or premiums;
(e) pensions, annuities or other periodical payments not
falling under any of the foregoing paragraphs;
(f) gains or profits not falling under any of the foregoing
paragraphs.
Special classes of income on which tax is chargeable
4A. Notwithstanding section 4 and subject to this Act, the income of
a person not resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment in respect of—
(i) amounts paid in consideration of services rendered by
the person or his employee in connection with the use of
property or rights belonging to, or the installation or
operation of any plant, machinery or other apparatus
purchased from, such persons;
(ii) amounts paid in consideration of any advice given, or
assistance or services rendered in connection with the
management or administration of any scientific,
industrial or commercial undertaking, venture, project or
scheme; or


(iii) rent or other payments made under any agreement or
arrangement for the use of any moveable property,
which is derived from Malaysia is chargeable to tax under this Act.
Non-business income
4B. For the purpose of section 4, gains or profit from a business shall
not include any interest that first becomes receivable by a person in the
basis period for a year of assessment other than interest where
subsection 24(5) applies.
Gain or profits from a business arising from stock in trade parted
with by any element of compulsion
4C. For the purpose of paragraph 4(a), gains or profits from a business
shall include an amount receivable arising from stock in trade parted
with by any element of compulsion including on requisition or
compulsory acquisition or in a similar manner.
Manner in which chargeable income is to be ascertained
5. (1) Subject to this Act, the chargeable income of a person upon
which tax is chargeable for a year of assessment shall be ascertained
in the following manner:
(a) first, the basis period for each of his sources for that year
shall be ascertained in accordance with Chapter 2 of
Part III;
(b) next, his gross income from each source for the basis
period for that year shall be ascertained in accordance
with Chapter 3 of that Part;
(c) next, his adjusted income from each source (or, in the
case of a source consisting of a business, his adjusted


Income Tax 33
income or adjusted loss from that source) for the
basis period for that year shall be ascertained in
accordance with Chapter 4 of that Part;
(d) next, his statutory income from each source for that year
shall be ascertained in accordance with Chapter 5 of that
Part;
(e) next, his aggregate income for that year and his total
income for that year shall be ascertained in accordance
with Chapter 6 of that Part; and
(f) next, his chargeable income for that year shall be
ascertained in accordance with Chapter 7 of that Part.
(1A) For the purpose of ascertaining the chargeable income of a
person under subsection (1), any amount or income received by that
person which is subject to deduction of tax under section 109C, 109D,
109DA in respect of a non-resident unit holder other than an individual,
109E or 109G shall be excluded.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, any income of a person from any
source or sources, and any adjusted loss of a person from any source
or sources consisting of a business, may be ascertained for any period
(including a year of assessment) notwithstanding that—
(a) the person in question may have ceased to possess that
source or any of those sources prior to that period; or
(b) in that period that source or any of those sources may
have ceased to produce gross income or may not have
produced any gross income.
(3) (Deleted by Act 337).
(4) (Deleted by Act 337).


Rates of tax
6. (1) (a) Except where this subsection provides otherwise and
subject to sections 6A and 6D, income tax shall be
charged for each year of assessment upon the chargeable
income of every person for that year at the appropriate
rate as specified in Part I of Schedule l;
(b) subject to section 109 but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, where—
(i) the income of a person not resident in Malaysia for
the basis year for a year of assessment consists of
interest (other than interest on an approved loan or
interest of the kind referred to in paragraph 33 of
Part 1, Schedule 6) or royalty derived from
Malaysia; or
(ii) the income of a person (other than a company) not
resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment consists of remuneration or other
income in respect of services performed or
rendered in Malaysia by a public entertainer,
income tax there on shall be charged at the appropriate
rate as specified in Part II of Schedule 1;
(c) (Deleted by Act 451);
(d) income tax shall be charged for each year of assessment
upon the chargeable income of every co-operative
society for that year at the appropriate rate as specified
in Part IV of Schedule 1;
(e) subject to section 109B but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, income tax shall be charged for
each year of assessment upon the income of a person
charged under section 4A at the appropriate rate as


Income Tax 35
specified under Part V of Schedule 1;
(f) subject to section 109C but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, income tax shall be charged for each
year of assessment upon the income of an individual
resident in Malaysia which consists of interest (other than
interest exempt from tax under this Act or any order made
thereto) accruing in or derived from Malaysia and received
from a person referred to in subsection 109C(4) at the
appropriate rate as specified under Part VI of Schedule 1;
(g) (Deleted by Act 624);
(h) income tax shall be charged for each year of assessment
upon the chargeable income of a foreign fund
management company in relation to the source
consisting of the provision of fund management services
to foreign investors for that year at the appropriate rate
as specified in Part IX of Schedule 1;
(i) subject to section 109D but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, income tax shall be charged for
each year of assessment upon the income of a unit holder
other than a unit holder which is a resident company
which consists of income distributed by the unit trust
referred to in section 61A at the appropriate rate as
specified under Part X of Schedule 1 provided that the
rates specified under such Part shall apply, in respect of
subparagraphs (a) and (c) of that Part for a period of six
years from the year of assessment 2020 and in respect of
subparagraph (b) of that Part for the year of assessment
2016 and subsequent years of assessment;
(j) subject to the provision of section 109E but
notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, income
tax shall be charged for each year of assessment upon the
income of a participant, other than a participant which is
a resident company, which consists of profits distributed
or credited by an operator referred to in section 60AA at


the appropriate rate as specified under Part XI of
Schedule 1;
(k) subject to section 109F but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, income tax shall be charged for
each year of assessment upon the income of a non-
resident person charged under paragraph 4(f) at the
appropriate rate as specified under Part XIII of Schedule
1;
(l) subject to section 109G but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, income tax shall be charged for a
year of assessment upon the income of an individual
consisting of the total amount received in respect of
withdrawal from a deferred annuity or a private
retirement scheme where such withdrawal is made by
that individual before reaching the age of fifty-five
(other than by reason of permanent total disablement,
serious disease, mental disability, death, permanently
leaving Malaysia, healthcare or housing, for which such
withdrawal shall be in compliance with the criteria as set
out in the relevant guidelines of the Securities
Commission) at the appropriate rate as specified under
Part XVI of Schedule 1;
(m) income tax shall be charged for each year of assessment
upon the chargeable income of a person who carries on
business in respect of a qualifying activity under an
incentive scheme approved by the Minister at the
appropriate rate as specified in Part XVII of Schedule 1;
(n) income tax shall be charged for each year of assessment
upon the chargeable income of an individual resident
who is not a citizen having and exercising employment
in a company which carries on business in respect of a
qualifying activity under an incentive scheme approved
by the Minister at the appropriate rate as specified in
Part XVIII of Schedule 1;


Income Tax 37
(o) subject to section 109DA but notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act, income tax shall be charged for
each year of assessment upon the income of a unit holder
other than an individual which consists of interest
distributed or credited by a unit trust that is a retail
money market fund referred to in subsection 61(1A) at
the appropriate rate as specified under Part XIX of
Schedule 1;
(p) income tax shall be charged upon the income of a person
who is a resident which is received in Malaysia from
outside Malaysia from 1 January 2022 until 30 June
2022 at the appropriate rate as specified under Part XX
of Schedule 1.
(1A) An incentive scheme referred to in paragraphs (1)(m) and (n)
shall be the incentive scheme for a qualifying activity prescribed by
the Minister which includes—
(a) any high technology activity in manufacturing and
services sector; and
(b) any other activities which would benefit the economy of
Malaysia.
(2) The Minister, where he is satisfied that it is the intention of the
Government to promote the introduction into the Dewan Rakyat of a
Bill to vary in any particular way the rates of tax, may by statutory
order declare those rates to be varied in that way; and, where he does
so, then, subject to subsections (3) and (4), this Act shall have effect
as if those rates as so varied had come into force at the beginning of
the first year of assessment for which the Bill seeks to vary those rates.
(3) Every order made under subsection (2) shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat as soon as may be after it has been made and shall cease
to have effect—
(a) at the expiration of a period of three months (or such
longer period as may be specified by resolution of the


Dewan Rakyat) beginning on the date when the order
was made; or
(b) on the coming into force (after the date when the order
was made) of an Act varying the rates of tax,
whichever first occurs.
(4) Where an order made under subsection (2) ceases to have effect
pursuant to subsection (3)—
(a) the amount of any tax which—
(i) has been charged by any assessment by reference
to the order; and
(ii) is payable (whether or not it is due or due and
payable) but not paid at the date when the order
ceases to have effect,
shall be taken to be amended to the amount which would
have been payable if the order had not been made; and
(b) so much of any tax paid by any person in consequence
of the order as exceeds the tax payable under the law in
force immediately after the date when the order ceases
to have effect shall be repaid by the Director General if
that person—
(i) makes a claim therefor in the prescribed form
within one year after that date; and
(ii) furnishes to the Director General such further
particulars of the claim as the Director General
may require.
(5) In subsections (2) and (3) any reference to rates of tax includes
a reference to the rate of any abatement specified under Schedule 1.


Income Tax 39
Tax rebate
6A. (1) Subject to this section, income tax charged for each year of
assessment upon the chargeable income of every individual resident
for the basis year for that year shall be rebated for that year of
assessment in accordance with subsections (2), (2A) and (3) before any
set off is made under section 110 and any credit is allowed under
section 132 or 133.
(2) A rebate shall be granted for a year of assessment in the
following amounts:
(a) four hundred ringgit in the case of an individual who has
been allowed a deduction under paragraph 46(1)(a) for
that year of assessment where his chargeable income for
that year of assessment does not exceed thirty-five
thousand ringgit;
(b) four hundred ringgit in the case of an individual who has
been allowed a deduction under subsection 47(1) or (2)
for that year of assessment where his chargeable income
for that year of assessment does not exceed thirty-five
thousand ringgit;
(c) four hundred ringgit in the case of a wife who has been
allowed a deduction under section 45A for that year of
assessment where her chargeable income for that year of
assessment does not exceed thirty-five thousand ringgit:
Provided that where Part XIV or XV of Schedule 1 applies, thirty-
five thousand ringgit shall consist of chargeable income of that
individual from all sources.
(2A) A rebate shall be granted for a year of assessment in respect of
departure levy which is charged and levied under the Departure Levy
Act 2019 [Act 813] on any person who leaves Malaysia by air for the
purpose of performing umrah or other religious pilgrimage and shall
be evidenced by the boarding pass and—


(a) in the case of umrah, a copy of the visa issued by the
embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia; or
(b) in the case of any other religious pilgrimage, a written
verification by a religious body recognized by the
Committee for the Promotion of Inter Religious
Understanding and Harmony Among Adherents, Prime
Minister’s Department.
(2B) For the purpose of subsection (2A), the rebate—
(a) shall be granted for not more than two times in respect
of the departure levy paid for the purpose of performing
umrah or other religious pilgrimage; and
(b) shall not be granted in respect of the departure levy paid
for the purpose of performing hajj.
(3) A rebate shall be granted for a year of assessment for any zakat,
fitrah or any other Islamic religious dues payment of which is
obligatory and which are paid in the basis year for that year of
assessment to, and evidenced by a receipt issued by, an appropriate
religious authority established under any written law.
(3A) (Deleted by Act 661).
(4) Where the total amount of the rebate under subsections (2), (2A)
and (3) exceeds the income tax charged (before any such rebate) for
any year of assessment, the excess shall not be paid to the individual
or available as a credit to set off his tax liability for that year of
assessment or any subsequent year.
6B. (Deleted by Act 661).
6C. (Deleted by Act 719).


Income Tax 41
Tax rebate for company or limited liability partnership
6D. (1) A rebate may be granted for a period of three consecutive
years from the year of assessment in which a company or limited
liability partnership first commences operation, in an amount
equivalent to its operating or capital expenditure which it has incurred
limited to a maximum amount of twenty thousand ringgit for each year
of assessment.
(2) Where the total amount of the rebate under subsection (1)
exceeds the income tax charged (before any such rebate) for any year
of assessment, the excess shall not be paid to the company or limited
liability partnership, or be available as credit to set off the tax liability
of the company or limited liability partnership for that year of
assessment or any subsequent year.
(3) The company or limited liability partnership referred to in
subsection (1) shall be a company or limited liability partnership
resident and incorporated or registered in Malaysia—
(a) which has a paid-up capital in respect of ordinary shares
or contribution of capital (whether in cash or in kind) of
two million and five hundred thousand ringgit and less
at the beginning of the basis period for a year of
assessment;
(b) which has a gross income from source or sources
consisting of a business not exceeding fifty million
ringgit for the basis period for that year of assessment;
and
(c) which has commenced operation on or after 1 July 2020
but not later than 31 December 2022.
(4) The Minister may, by statutory order, impose such conditions as
he thinks fit to give effect to or for carrying out the purposes of this
section.


(5) Where in a year of assessment the company or limited liability
partnership fails to fulfil the conditions specified in subsection (3) or
(4), the amount of rebate under subsection (1) shall not be granted for
that year of assessment in which the failure occurs and in the
subsequent years of assessment.
(6) The statutory order made under subsection (4) shall be laid
before the Dewan Rakyat.
Residence: individuals
7. (1) For the purposes of this Act, an individual is resident in
Malaysia for the basis year for a particular year of assessment if—
(a) he is in Malaysia in that basis year for a period or periods
amounting in all to one hundred and eighty two days or
more;
(b) he is in Malaysia in that basis year for a period of less
than one hundred and eighty-two days and that period is
linked by or to another period of one hundred and eighty-
two or more consecutive days (hereinafter referred to in
this paragraph as such period) throughout which he is in
Malaysia in the basis year for the year of assessment
immediately preceding that particular year of assessment
or in that basis year for the year of assessment
immediately following that particular year of
assessment:
Provided that any temporary absence from Malaysia—
(i) connected with his service in Malaysia and owing
to service matters or attending conferences or
seminars or study abroad;
(ii) owing to ill-health involving himself or a member
of his immediate family; and


Income Tax 43
(iii) in respect of social visits not exceeding fourteen
days in the aggregate,
shall be taken to form part of such period or that period,
as the case may be, if he is in Malaysia immediately prior
to and after that temporary absence;
(c) he is in Malaysia in that basis year for a period or periods
amounting in all to ninety days or more, having been
with respect to each of any three of the basis years for
the four years of assessment immediately preceding that
particular year of assessment either—
(i) resident in Malaysia within the meaning of this
Act for the basis year in question; or
(ii) in Malaysia for a period or periods amounting in all to
ninety days or more in the basis year in question; or
(d) he is resident in Malaysia within the meaning of this Act
for the basis year for the year of assessment following
that particular year of assessment, having been so
resident for each of the basis years for the three years of
assessment immediately preceding that particular year of
assessment.
(1A) For the purposes of subsection (1), an individual shall be
deemed to be in Malaysia for a day if he is present in Malaysia for part
of that day and in ascertaining the period for which he is in Malaysia
during any year, any day (within paragraphs 1(a) and (c) for which he
is in Malaysia shall be taken into account whether or not that day forms
part of a continuous period of days during which he is in Malaysia.
(1B) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where a person who is a
citizen and—
(a) is employed in the public services or service of a
statutory authority; and


(b) is not in Malaysia at any day in the basis year for that
particular year of assessment by reason of—
(i) having and exercising his employment outside
Malaysia; or
(ii) attending any course of study in any institution
or professional body outside Malaysia which is
fully-sponsored by the employer,
he is deemed to be a resident for the basis year for that
particular year of assessment and for any subsequent basis
years when he is not in Malaysia.
(2) (Deleted by Act A226).
Residence: companies and bodies of persons
8. (1) For the purposes of this Act—
(a) a Hindu joint family is resident in Malaysia for the basis
year for a year of assessment if its manager or karta is
resident for that basis year;
(b) a company or a body of persons (not being a Hindu joint
family) carrying on a business is resident in Malaysia for
the basis year for a year of assessment if at any time
during that basis year the management and control of its
business or of any one of its businesses, as the case may
be, are exercised in Malaysia; and
(c) any other company or body of persons (not being a
Hindu joint family) is resident in Malaysia for the basis
year for a year of assessment if at any time during that
basis year the management and control of its affairs are
exercised in Malaysia by its directors or other
controlling authority.


Income Tax 45
(1A) Notwithstanding subsection (1), for the purposes of this Act —
(a) a limited liability partnership carrying on a business is
resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment if at any time during that basis year the
management and control of its business or of any one of
its businesses, as the case may be, are exercised in
Malaysia;
(b) any other limited liability partnership is resident in
Malaysia for the basis year for a year of assessment if at
any time during that basis year the management and
control of its affairs are exercised in Malaysia by its
partners;
(c) a business trust is resident in Malaysia for the basis year
for a year of assessment if the trustee manager of that
business trust is resident in Malaysia and a trustee
manager of a business trust is resident for the basis year
for a year of assessment if —
(i) the trustee manager in his capacity as such carries
on such business trust in Malaysia; and
(ii) the management and control of the business of
such business trust is exercised in Malaysia.
(2) If it is shown that it has been established as between the Director
General and a company, limited liability partnership, business trust or
body of persons for any tax purpose that the company, limited liability
partnership, business trust or body was resident in Malaysia for the
basis year for any year of assessment, it shall be presumed until the
contrary is proved that the company, limited liability partnership,
business trust or body was resident in Malaysia for the purposes of this
Act for the basis year for every subsequent year of assessment.
9. (Deleted by Act A226).


10. (Deleted by Act A226).
11. (Deleted by Act 624).
Derivation of business income in certain cases
12. (1) Where for the purposes of this Act it is necessary to ascertain
any gross income of a person derived from Malaysia from a business
of his, then—
(a) subject to subsection (2), so much of the gross income
from the business as is not attributable to operations of
the business carried on outside Malaysia shall be deemed
to be derived from Malaysia;
(b) notwithstanding paragraph (a), if the business consists
wholly or partly of the manufacturing, growing, mining,
producing or harvesting in Malaysia of any article,
product, produce or other thing—
(i) the gross income from any sale of the article,
product, produce or other thing taking place
outside Malaysia in the course of carrying on the
business; or
(ii) where the article, product, produce or other thing
is exported in the course of carrying on the
business and subparagraph (i) does not apply, an
amount equal to the market value of the article,
produce, product or other thing at the time of its
export,
shall be deemed to be gross income of that person
derived from Malaysia from the business.
(2) Where in the case of a business to which paragraph (1)(a)
applies—


Income Tax 47
(a) the business or a part thereof is carried on in Malaysia;
(b) any of the gross income of the business (from wherever
derived) consists of a dividend or interest to which
subsection 24(4) or (5) applies; and
(c) the dividend or interest relates either—
(i) to a share, debenture, mortgage or other source
which forms or has formed part of the stock in
trade of the business or, where only part of the
business is carried on in Malaysia, of that part of
the business; or
(ii) to a loan of the kind mentioned in subsection 24(5)
granted in the course of carrying on the business
or that part of the business, as the case may be,
so much of that gross income as consists of that dividend or interest
shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia.
(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the income of a person
from a business that is attributable to a place of business in Malaysia
shall be deemed to be the gross income of that person derived from
Malaysia from the business.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (3), a place of business includes―
(a) a place of management;
(b) a branch;
(c) an office;
(d) a factory;
(e) a workshop;
(f) a warehouse;


(g) a building site, or a construction, an installation or an
assembly project;
(h) a farm or plantation; and
(i) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of
extraction of natural resources,
and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, a person shall
be deemed to have a place of business in Malaysia if that person―
(i) carries on supervisory activities in connection with a
building or work site, or a construction, an installation or
an assembly project; or
(ii) has another person acting on his behalf who―
(A) habitually concludes contracts, or habitually plays
the principal role leading to the conclusion of
contracts that are routinely concluded without
material modification;
(B) habitually maintains a stock of goods or
merchandise in that place of business from which
such person delivers goods or merchandise; or
(C) regularly fills orders on his behalf.
General provisions as to employment income
13. (1) Gross income of an employee in respect of gains or profits
from an employment includes—
(a) any wages, salary, remuneration, leave pay, fee,
commission, bonus, gratuity, perquisite or allowance
(whether in money or otherwise) in respect of having or
exercising the employment;


Income Tax 49
(b) an amount equal to the value of the use or enjoyment by
the employee of any benefit or amenity (not being a
benefit or amenity convertible into money) provided for
the employee by or on behalf of his employer,
excluding—
(i) a benefit or amenity consisting of medical or
dental treatment or a benefit for child care;
(ii) a benefit or amenity consisting of—
(A) leave passages including meals and
accommodation for travel within Malaysia
not exceeding three times in any calendar
year; or
(B) one leave passage for travel between
Malaysia and any place outside Malaysia
in any calendar year, limited to a maximum
of three thousand ringgit:
Provided that the benefit or amenity
enjoyed under this subparagraph is
confined only to the employee and
members of his immediate family;
(iii) a benefit or amenity used by the employee solely in
connection with the performance of his duties; and
(iv) a benefit or amenity falling under paragraph (c);
(c) an amount in respect of the use or enjoyment by the
employee of living accommodation in Malaysia
(including living accommodation in premises occupied
by his employer) provided for the employee by or on
behalf of the employer rent free or otherwise;
(d) so much of any amount (other than a pension, annuity or
periodical payment falling under paragraph 4(e))


received by the employee, whether before or after his
employment ceases, from a pension or provident fund,
scheme or society not approved for the purpose of this
Act as would not have been so received if his employer
had not made contributions in respect of the employee to
the fund, scheme or society or its trustees; and
(e) any amount received by the employee, whether before or
after his employment ceases, by way of compensation
for loss of the employment, including any amount in
respect of—
(i) a covenant entered into by the employee
restricting his right after leaving the employment
to engage in employment of a similar kind; or
(ii) any agreement or arrangement having the like
effect.
(1A) The total amount of gross income referred to in subsection (1),
where applicable, shall include any amount of output tax paid under
the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 in connection with the gross
income which is borne by the employer.
(2) Gross income in respect of gains or profits from an
employment—
(a) for any period during which the employment is exercised
in Malaysia;
(b) for any period of leave attributable to the exercise of the
employment in Malaysia;
(c) for any period during which the employee performs
outside Malaysia duties incidental to the exercise of the
employment in Malaysia;
(d) for any period during which a person is a director of a
company and that company is resident in Malaysia for


Income Tax 51
the basis year for a year of assessment and within that
basis year that period or part of that period falls; or
(e) for any period during which the employment is exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft used in a business operated by a
person who is resident in Malaysia for the basis year for
a year of assessment and within that basis year that
period or part of that period falls,
shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia.
(3) Gross income in respect of gains or profits from an employment
in the public services or the service of a statutory authority—
(a) for any period during which the employment is exercised
outside Malaysia; or
(b) for any period of leave attributable to the exercise of the
employment outside Malaysia,
shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia if the employee is a
citizen.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1) a benefit, amenity or living
accommodation provided for an employee as therein mentioned shall
be deemed to be used or enjoyed by the employee if it is used or
enjoyed by his spouse, family, servants, dependants or guests.
(5) Any question whether any gross income is gross income for a
period mentioned in subsection (2) shall be decided by applying the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 3 of Part III as if that period were
the basis period for a year of assessment.
13A. (Deleted by Act 293).


General provisions as to dividend income
14. (1) Subject to this section, where a company resident for the
basis year for a year of assessment pays, credits or distributes a
dividend in the basis period for that year of assessment, the dividend
shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia.
(2) Where a company resident for the basis year for a year of
assessment was not resident for the basis year for the year of
assessment immediately preceding that year of assessment, only
dividends paid, credited, or distributed by the company on or after the
day on which the management and control of any business of the
company (or, in the case of a company which does not carry on a
business, the management and control of its affairs by its directors or
other controlling authority) were first exercised in Malaysia in that
first-mentioned basis year shall be deemed to be derived from
Malaysia.
(3) Where—
(a) the management and control of the business of a
company (or, if it has more than one business, of all its
businesses); or
(b) in the case of a company which does not carry on a
business, the management and control of its affairs by its
directors or other controlling authority,
cease to be exercised in Malaysia in the basis year for a year of
assessment and the company is not resident for the basis year for the
year of assessment following that first-mentioned year of assessment,
dividends paid, credited or distributed in that first-mentioned basis
year after the cessation shall not be deemed to be derived from
Malaysia.
(4) Where a dividend consists of property other than money, that
dividend shall be taken to consist of an amount equal to the market
value of the property at the time of the distribution of the dividend.


Income Tax 53
Derivation of interest and royalty income in certain cases
15. Gross income in respect of interest or royalty shall be deemed to
be derived from Malaysia—
(a) if responsibility for payment of the interest or royalty lies
with the Government, a State Government or a local
authority;
(b) (i) if responsibility for payment of the interest or
royalty in the basis year for a year of assessment
(the responsibility of any guarantor being
disregarded in the case of interest) lies with a
person who is resident for that basis year; and
(ii) in the case of interest it is payable in respect of
money borrowed by that person and employed in or
laid out on assets used in or held for the production
of any gross income of that person derived from
Malaysia or the debt in respect of which the interest
is paid is secured by any property or asset situated
in Malaysia; or
(c) if the interest or royalty is charged as an outgoing or
expense against any income accruing in or derived from
Malaysia.
Derivation of special classes of income in certain cases
15A. Gross income in respect of—
(a) amounts paid in consideration of services rendered by a
person or his employee in connection with the use of
property or rights belonging to, or the installation or
operation of any plant, machinery or other apparatus
purchased from, such person;
(b) amounts paid in consideration of any advice given, or
assistance or services rendered in connection with the


management or administration of any scientific,
industrial or commercial undertaking, venture, project or
scheme;
(c) rent or other payments made under any agreement or
arrangement for the use of any moveable property,
shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia—
(i) if responsibility for payment of the above or other
payments lies with the Government, a State
Government or a local authority;
(ii) if responsibility for the payment of the above or
other payments lies with a person who is a resident
for that basis year; or
(iii) if the payment of the above or other payments is
charged as an outgoing or expense in the accounts
of a business carried on in Malaysia.
Derivation of gains or profits in certain cases
15B. Gross income in respect of gains or profits to which
paragraph 4(f) applies shall be deemed to be derived from
Malaysia—
(a) if responsibility for the payment of such gains or profits
lies with the Government, a State Government or a local
authority;
(b) if responsibility for the payment of such gains or profits
lies with a person who is a resident for that basis year; or
(c) if the payment of such gains or profits is charged as an
outgoing or expense in the accounts of a business carried
on in Malaysia.


Income Tax 55
Voluntary pensions, etc.
16. Where any pension or other periodical payment is paid voluntarily
to any person who has permanently ceased to exercise an employment
(or to that person’s widow or widower, child, relative or dependant) by
his former employer or the successor of his former employer, there
shall be deemed to be a source of that person or of that person’s widow
or widower, child, relative or dependant, as the case may be, in respect
of that pension or payment and that pension or payment shall be
deemed to be gross income from that source chargeable to tax.
Derivation of pensions, etc.
17. (1) Gross income in respect of a pension from the
Government or a State Government shall be deemed to be derived
from Malaysia.
(2) Where—
(a) a person has a right to a pension or other like payment—
(i) from a pension fund or a fund of a similar kind;
(ii) under a pension scheme or a scheme of a similar
kind; or
(iii) by virtue of his membership of a pension society
or a society of a similar kind; and
(b) the forum of the administration of the fund, scheme or
society is in Malaysia at any time in the basis year for a
year of assessment,
the gross income for the basis period for that year of assessment in
respect of the pension or other like payment shall be deemed to be
derived from Malaysia.


(3) The gross income for the basis period for a year of
assessment from any source of the kind mentioned in section 16 or
in respect of a pension or other periodical payment to which
paragraph 4(e) applies shall be deemed to be derived from
Malaysia if the person paying that income was resident for the
basis year for that year of assessment:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply to a pension or other
payment to which subsection (1) or (2) applies.
PART III
ASCERTAINMENT OF CHARGEABLE INCOME
Chapter 1 - Preliminary
Interpretation of Part III
18. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires—
“agriculture” means any form of cultivation of crops, animal
farming, aquaculture, inland fishing and any other agricultural or
pastoral pursuit;
“cargo” includes mail, currency, specie, livestock and all kinds of
goods;
“crops” includes any form of vegetable produce;
“defined value”, in relation to living accommodation provided for an
employee by or on behalf of his employer, means—
(a) where the accommodation is not affected by any written
law providing for the restriction or control of rents and
the person so providing the accommodation holds the
accommodation on lease the rent which is or would have
been paid if the accommodation is or had been
unfurnished and the lessor and lessee were independent
persons dealing at arm’s length;


Income Tax 57
(b) in any other case, the rateable value or, in the absence of
a rateable value, the economic rent;
“disabled person” means any individual certified in writing by the
Department of Social Welfare to be a disabled person;
“economic rent”, in relation to any premises or part of any premises,
means the rent at which those premises or that part might reasonably
be expected to be let if—
(a) the lessor covenanted to pay the cost of fire insurance,
public rates and work of repair and maintenance (being
work which would normally be included in a covenant
to repair and maintain if such a covenant were entered
into by a lessor dealing at arm’s length); and
(b) any written law providing for the restriction or control of
rents were disregarded;
“entertainment” includes—
(a) the provision of food, drink, recreation or hospitality of
any kind; or
(b) the provision of accommodation or travel in connection
with or for the purpose of facilitating entertainment of
the kind mentioned in paragraph (a),
by a person or an employee of his, with or without any consideration
paid whether in cash or in kind, in promoting or in connection with a
trade or business carried on by that person;
“farm” means any land used for the purposes of agriculture;
“furniture” includes air-conditioning equipment and any fixture
which, if it were not a fixture, would be regarded as furniture;


“insurance” includes a takaful scheme pursuant to the
*Takaful Act 1984 [Act 312];
“licensed Malaysian offshore bank” has the meaning assigned to it
by the Labuan Offshore Business Activity Tax Act 1990 [Act 445];
“mine” means a source of minerals over which mining operations
are, have been or may lawfully be carried on;
“minerals” means minerals and mineral substances (other than
mineral oils), and includes precious metals, precious stones and
non-precious minerals, but does not include common clay (other than
kaolin or bentonite), sand, sandstone or any sodium compound or any
other similar common mineral substance obtainable without
underground mining operations and not containing any precious metal
or precious stones in economically workable quantities;
“mining operations” includes every method or process by which
minerals are won or obtained;
“payroll tax” means any tax of that name imposed by a written law;
“premiums”, in relation to insurance, includes contributions or
instalments payable under a takaful scheme pursuant to the
*Takaful Act 1984;
“rateable value”, in relation to premises, means the annual value as
determined for rating purposes by the local rating authority, if any;
“replanting” means the replacement of the crop of any product on
any area of land by taking such action as is calculated to produce on
the same area a crop of the same product and includes reforestation of
timber;
“turnover tax” means any tax of that name imposed by a written law.
*NOTE—The Takaful Act 1984 [Act 312] has since been repealed by the
Islamic Financial Finance Act 2013 [Act 759] which comes into operation on 30 June 2013–see
section 282 of Act 759.


Income Tax 59
Supplementary provisions for the interpretation of Part III
19. (1) A period overlaps another period for the purposes of this Part
if—
(a) it begins before and ends in or at the same time as or after
that other period; or
(b) it begins at the same time as or during that other period
and ends after that other period.
(2) For the purposes of this Part, an individual and a wife of his shall
be treated as living together unless—
(a) they are separated under an order of a court or under a deed
of separation or a written agreement for separation; or
(b) they are in fact separated in such circumstances that the
separation is likely to be permanent.
(3) Where—
(a) it is necessary for the purposes of Chapter 4 to ascertain
the amount of any interest, rent or any payment of any
other kind which is payable for the basis period (or for a
part of the basis period) for a year of assessment; and
(b) the period for which the interest, rent or payment is
payable (in this subsection referred to as the relevant
period) overlaps that basis period,
the interest, rent or payment shall be taken to accrue evenly over the
relevant period, and so much of the interest, rent or payment as is thus
found to accrue during the period of the overlap shall be taken to be
the amount of the interest, rent or payment which is payable for that
basis period or that part of that basis period, as the case may be.
(4) In this Part a reference to—


(a) gross income or any other item receivable; or
(b) rent or any other sum payable,
is a reference to any gross income, other item, rent or other sum, as the
case may be, which is payable to the recipient, whether or not it is due
or due and payable.
(5) Any reference to this Part in section 18 or this section includes
a reference to Schedules 2, 3, 4 and 4B.
(6) For the avoidance of doubt it is declared that, where a person
who is a partner in a partnership is not in fact personally engaged in
carrying on the business of that partnership, nothing in
section 55, 56 or 57 shall cause that partner to be treated as being
personally engaged in his proprietorship or continuing proprietorship
business in relation to that partnership.
Chapter 2 —Basis years and basis periods
Basis years
20. For the purposes of this Act, the calendar year coinciding with a
year of assessment shall constitute the basis year for that year of
assessment.
Basis period of a person other than a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society
21. The basis year for a year of assessment shall constitute, in relation
to a source of a person other than a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society, the basis period for that
year of assessment.


Income Tax 61
Basis period of a company, limited liability partnership, trust body
or co-operative society
21A. (1) Except as provided in this section, the basis year for a year
of assessment shall constitute, in relation to a source of a company,
limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society, the
basis period for that year of assessment.
(2) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), where a company, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society has made up the
accounts of its operations for a period of twelve months ending on a
day other than 31 December in the basis year, that period shall
constitute the basis period for that year of assessment for any of its
sources of income.
(3) Where the company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society has made up the accounts of its operations for a
period of twelve months ending on a day in a basis year and there is a
failure to make up the accounts of the company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society ending on the
corresponding day in the following basis year, the Director General
may direct that the basis period for the year of assessment in which the
failure occurs, or the basis periods for that year and the following year
of assessment, shall consist of a period or periods (which may be of
any length) as specified in the direction.
(3A) Where a company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society has made up the accounts of its operations for a
period of twelve months ending on a day in a basis year and has failed
to make up its accounts ending on the corresponding day in the
following basis year (“hereinafter referred to as “the new accounts”),
the company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative
society shall notify the Director General of such failure in the
prescribed form—
(a) in the case where the new accounts are made up ending
before the corresponding day, thirty days before the end
of the new accounts; or


(b) in the case where the new accounts are made up ending
after the corresponding day, thirty days before the
corresponding day.
(4) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), where a company, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society commences
operation on a day in a basis year for a year of assessment (hereinafter
referred to as the “first year of assessment”) and makes up its account —
(a) for a period of less than twelve months ending on a day
in that basis year, that period shall constitute the basis
period for the first year of assessment;
(b) for any period of months ending on a day in the
immediately following basis year (hereinafter referred to
as the “second basis year”), that period shall constitute
the basis period for the year of assessment (hereinafter
referred to as the “second year of assessment”)
immediately following the first year of assessment, there
shall be no basis period in relation to any of its sources
of income for the first year of assessment; or
(c) for a period of more than twelve months ending on a day
in the basis year immediately following the second basis
year, that period shall constitute the basis period for the
year of assessment immediately following the second
year of assessment and there shall be no basis period in
relation to any of its sources of income for the first year
of assessment and the second year of assessment.
(5) Where a company commences operations and—
(a) is required under any law of the place of incorporation
to make up its accounts ending on a specified day; or
(b) being a company within a group of companies makes up
its accounts ending on the same day as that of all other
companies in that group,


Income Tax 63
the period which begins from the day the company commences
operations until the end of the accounting period of the company shall
constitute, for those operations of that company, the basis period for a
year of assessment.
(6) Where a company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society on the day on which it commences a new
operation is already carrying on one or more operations, the basis
period of the existing operation or operations for a year of assessment
in which that day falls shall constitute for the new operation the basis
period for that year of assessment and there shall be no basis period for
the new operation for the year of assessment preceding that year.
(7) In subsections (4) and (6), references to company, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society commencing to
carry on an operation shall be construed only as references to cases
where the company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society in question commences to carry on—
(a) its own operations; or
(b) the operations of another company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society being
operations not previously carried on by that other
company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society or its agents.
(8) For the purposes of this section, “operations” in relation to a
company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative
society means—
(a) an activity which consists of the carrying on of a
business;
(b) an activity which consists wholly in the making of
investments;
(c) an activity which consists of both the carrying on of a
business and the making of investments; or


(d) an activity which consists of the making of investments
prior to the commencement of a business or after the
cessation of a business.
Chapter 3—Gross income
Gross income generally
22. (1) Subject to this Act, the gross income of a person from a
source of his for the basis period for a year of assessment shall be the
gross income from that source for that period ascertained in accordance
with the following provisions of this Chapter (that person and that
period being referred to in those provisions as the relevant person and
the relevant period respectively).
(2) Subject to this Act, the gross income of a person from a source
of his for the basis period for a year of assessment shall include any
sums receivable or deemed to have been received for that basis period
in relation to that source by way of—
(a) insurance, indemnity, recoupment, recovery,
reimbursement or otherwise—
(i) where such sums are in respect of the kind of
outgoings and expenses deductible in ascertaining
the adjusted income of that person from that
source; or
(ii) under a contract of indemnity; and
(b) compensation for loss of income from that source.
(c) (Deleted by Act 661).
Interpretation of sections 24 to 28
23. For the purposes of sections 24 to 28—


Income Tax 65
(a) a reference to a debt is a reference to a debt in a
liquidated sum (whether or not due or due and payable);
(b) a dividend deemed to be derived from Malaysia by virtue
of section 14 shall be treated as paid on the day on which
cash or its equivalent (whether in the form of a voucher,
cheque or otherwise) in respect of the dividend is posted
or delivered by or on behalf of the payer, and as
distributed in specie on the day on which it is posted or
delivered by or on behalf of the distributor;
(c) where any tax or foreign tax has been deducted in
paying, crediting or distributing any gross income, then,
with respect to that gross income, any reference in those
sections to gross income paid, credited or received shall
be taken to mean the amount of that gross income before
the deduction;
(d) where any dividend deemed to be derived from Malaysia
by virtue of section 14 is paid or credited without
deduction of tax or is distributed in specie, the amount
of the gross income in respect of that dividend shall be
taken to be such an amount as, after deduction of tax at
the rate deductible at the date of payment, crediting or
distribution, would be equal to—
(i) the amount in fact paid;
(ii) the amount in fact credited; or
(iii) the market value of the dividend at the date of
distribution,
as the case may be.


Basis period to which gross income from a business is related
24. (1) Where in the relevant period a debt owing to the relevant
person arises in respect of—
(a) any stock in trade sold in or before the relevant period in
the course of carrying on a business;
(aa) any stock in trade parted with by any element of
compulsion including on requisition or compulsory
acquisition or in a similar manner, in or before the
relevant period;
(b) any services rendered or to be rendered at any time in the
course of carrying on a business; or
(c) the use or enjoyment of any property dealt or to be dealt
with at any time in the course of carrying on a business,
the amount of the debt shall be treated as gross income of the relevant
person from the business for the relevant period.
(1A) Except where subsection (1) applies, where in the relevant
period, any sum is received by a relevant person in the course of
carrying on a business in respect of any services to be rendered or the
use or enjoyment of any property to be dealt with in the relevant period
or in any following basis period, the sum shall be treated as the gross
income of the relevant person from the business for the relevant period
the sum is received notwithstanding that no debt is owing to the
relevant person in respect of such services or such use or enjoyment.
(2) Where in the relevant period any stock in trade of a business of
the relevant person is—
(a) withdrawn for his own use; or
(b) withdrawn (otherwise than on requisition or compulsory
acquisition or in a similar manner) without any


Income Tax 67
consideration being received therefor or for a
consideration consisting of—
(i) any property not being either a debt owing to the
relevant person or a sum in cash or the equivalent
of cash;
(ii) any such property together with a debt owing to
the relevant person or any such sum; or
(iii) any such property together with a debt owing to
the relevant person and any such sum,
then, subject to subsection (3), an amount equal to the market value of
that stock in trade at the time of its withdrawal shall be treated as gross
income of the relevant person from the business for the relevant period.
(3) Where in a case to which subsection (2) applies the
consideration for the withdrawal of any stock in trade is consideration
of the kind described in subparagraph (b)(ii) or (iii) of that subsection,
then, for the purposes of that subsection—
(a) the amount of the market value of that stock in trade shall
be reduced by the amount of the debt or sum or the
amount of the debt and sum, as the case may be, referred
to in whichever of those subparagraphs applies to the
case;
(b) subsection (1) shall apply to the debt as if it were a debt
arising on the sale of that stock in trade; and
(c) section 28 shall apply to any such sum.
(4) Subject to section 3, where in the relevant period a dividend is
paid, credited or distributed to the relevant person, then, if the stock,
share or other source to which the dividend relates forms or has formed
in or before the relevant period part of the stock in trade of a business
of the relevant person—


(a) the amount of the dividend shall be treated as gross
income of the relevant person from the business for the
relevant period, if the business is carried on at any time
in the relevant period; and
(b) subsection (1) shall not apply to a debt owing to the
relevant person in respect of any such dividend:
Provided that, where this subsection has applied to a dividend which
has been credited, it shall not apply to that dividend when paid.
(5) Subject to section 3, where in the relevant period any gross
interest first becomes receivable by the relevant person, then, if the
debenture, mortgage or other source to which the interest relates forms
or has formed in or before the relevant period part of the stock in trade
of a business carried on by or on behalf of the relevant person, or if the
interest is in respect of a loan granted in or before the relevant period
in the course of carrying on the business of lending of money and the
business is one which is licensed under any written law—
(a) the interest shall be treated as gross income of the
relevant person from the business for the relevant period
if the business is carried on at any time in the relevant
period; and
(b) subsection (1) shall not apply to a debt owing to the
relevant person in respect of any such interest.
(6) Where in the relevant period any article, product, produce or
other thing is exported from Malaysia in the course of carrying on a
business in such circumstances that subsection 12(1) applies thereto in
relation to the business—
(a) subsection (2) shall not apply with respect to that article,
product, produce or other thing or to any gross income
received in respect thereof; and
(b) the amount equal to the market value of the article, product,
produce or other thing deemed under subsection 12(1) to be


Income Tax 69
gross income derived from the business shall be treated as
gross income of the relevant person from the business for
the relevant period.
(7) Where this section applies to any particular item of gross
income, nothing in sections 25 to 29 and nothing in section 30 shall
apply to that item.
(8) This section shall not apply to income under section 4A.
Basis period to which gross income from an employment is related
25. (1) Subject to this section, where gross income from an
employment is receivable in respect of any particular period, it shall,
when received in the relevant period, be treated as the gross income of
the relevant person for the relevant period.
(1A) The gross income from an employment in respect of any
right to acquire shares in a company of the kind to which
paragraph 13(1)(a) applies, shall where the right is exercised,
assigned, released or acquired in the relevant period be treated as
gross income of the relevant person for that relevant period.
(2) (Deleted by Act 773).
(2A) (Deleted by Act 773).
(3) (Deleted by Act 773).
(4) (Deleted by Act 773).
(5) (Deleted by Act 773).
(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the Director
General is satisfied that—
(a) an employee has left or will be leaving Malaysia in the
basis year for the year of assessment to which the


relevant period relates (that year of assessment being in
this subsection referred to as the relevant year) and will
not be resident for the basis year for the following year
of assessment;
(b) no pension derived from Malaysia will be receivable by
the employee for the basis period for that following year;
and
(c) gross income from the employee’s employment will
cease to be derived from Malaysia on the expiration of a
period of leave following the employee’s departure from
Malaysia,
any gross income from the employment which but for this subsection
would by virtue of any of the foregoing subsections be receivable for
the basis period for the relevant year or for the basis period for the year
of assessment following the relevant year, shall be treated as deemed
to have been received for the relevant period unless the employee in
making his return of income for the relevant year (or within such
period after the making of that return as the Director General may
allow) makes a written request to the Director General that this
subsection shall not apply in relation to his gross income from the
employment.
Basis period to which gross income in respect of dividend is related
26. (1) Subject to subsection (2), where gross income from a source
consists of a dividend deemed to be derived from Malaysia by virtue
of section 14, all gross income from that source paid, credited or
distributed in the relevant period shall be taken to be gross income of
the relevant person for the relevant period:
Provided that, where this section has applied to a dividend which had
been credited, it shall not apply to that dividend when paid.
(2) In relation to gross income to which subsection (1) applies,
where the relevant period overlaps the basis period for the immediately


Income Tax 71
preceding year of assessment, the gross income in relation to the part
of the relevant period which overlaps that basis period shall not be
taken to be the gross income of the relevant person for the relevant
period.
Basis period to which gross income in respect of interest, etc., is
related
27. (1) Subject to this section where gross income from a source in
Malaysia of the relevant person—
(a) consists of any interest, discount, rent or royalty or of
any pension, annuity or other periodical payment to
which paragraph 4(e) applies; and
(b) first becomes receivable in the relevant period,
it shall when it has been received be treated as gross income of the
relevant person for the relevant period.
(1A) Where gross income from a source in Malaysia of a company
consists of any amount of discount or premium from the subscription
or issuance of bond, as the case may be, and first becomes receivable
in the relevant period, that amount shall be deemed to accrue over the
whole period of the bond and the gross income of the company for the
relevant period that relates to the period of the bond shall be a sum to
be determined in accordance with the following formula:
A x C
B
where A is the number of days in the relevant period that
falls within the period of the bond;
B is the total number of days of the whole period
of the bond; and


C is the total amount of discount or premium in
respect of the bond:
Provided that the Director General may allow the company to
consistently apply any other formula which is in accordance with the
generally accepted accounting principles applicable during the
relevant period.
(2) Where gross income from a source of the relevant person is
gross income to which subsection (1) or (1A) applies and is receivable
in respect of a period (in this subsection referred to as the overlapping
period) which overlaps the relevant period, that gross income when
received shall be apportioned between the part of the overlapping
period which overlaps the relevant period and the remaining part of the
overlapping period (the apportionment, unless the Director General
having regard to the facts of any particular case otherwise directs,
being made in the proportion that the number of days of the
overlapping period that fall into the relevant period bears to the total
number of days of the overlapping period) and so much of that gross
income as is apportioned to the overlapping part of the overlapping
period shall be treated as gross income of the relevant person from that
source for the relevant period:
Provided that—
(a) where that gross income is in respect of an amount of
interest calculated for two or more periods of accrual
which together make up the overlapping period, the
gross income in respect of the interest in respect of each
period of accrual shall be ascertained and—
(i) if any such period of accrual falls into the relevant
period, subsection (1) shall apply to the gross
income so ascertained in respect of that period of
accrual;
(ii) if any such period of accrual overlaps the relevant
period, this subsection (without this paragraph of
this proviso) shall apply to the gross income so


Income Tax 73
ascertained in respect of that period of accrual as
if that period of accrual were the overlapping
period and as if that last mentioned gross income
were gross income receivable in respect of the
overlapping period;
(b) where the overlapping period in respect of which that
gross income is receivable partly the elapsed more than
four years before the day on which the receipt of that
gross income first became known to the Director
General, then, for the purposes of this subsection, that
gross income shall whenever necessary be deemed to
have been receivable in respect of and to have accrued
evenly over that part of the overlapping period which did
not so elapse and, if that part falls wholly into the
relevant period, shall whenever necessary be deemed to
be gross income of the relevant person from that source
for the relevant period;
(c) where the overlapping period in respect of which that gross
income is receivable wholly elapsed more than four years
before the day on which the receipt of that gross income
first became known to the Director General, that gross
income shall whenever necessary be treated as gross
income of the relevant person for the basis period for the
year of assessment which began four years before the
beginning of the year of assessment which includes that
day.
(3) Where gross income mentioned in subsection (1) or (1A)
becomes receivable in the relevant period and is in respect of—
(a) a period which commences after the end of the relevant
period; or
(b) a period which overlaps the relevant period and which
partly elapsed after the end of the relevant period,


subsection (2) shall not apply and that gross income shall when
received be treated as gross income of the relevant person for the
relevant period:
Provided that, where the relevant period wholly elapsed more than
four years before the day on which the receipt of that gross income first
becomes known to the Director General, that gross income shall
whenever necessary be treated as gross income of the relevant person
for the basis period for the year of assessment which began four years
before the beginning of the year of assessment which includes that day.
(4) In subsection (2) “period of accrual” means a period throughout
which there is no change in the rate of interest or in the principal sum
in respect of which interest is payable.
Basis period to which gross income not provided for by
sections 24 to 27 is related
28. Subject to this Act, where in the relevant period there is received
by the relevant person from a source any gross income to which
sections 24 to 27 do not apply, the amount of that income (or, where
the income consists of something having a market value, the amount
of its market value at the time of its receipt) shall be treated as gross
income of the relevant person from that source for the relevant period.
Basis period to which income obtainable on demand is related
29. (1) Notwithstanding anything in sections 23 to 28, where the
circumstances are such that the relevant person is entitled to any gross
income (other than gross income to which section 24 or 26 applies)
accruing in or derived from Malaysia and is able to obtain the receipt
thereof on demand, that gross income shall be treated as being received
by him at the time those circumstances arise.
(2) The reference in subsection (1) to gross income the receipt of
which the relevant person is able to obtain on demand includes a
reference to gross income the receipt of which he would be able to


Income Tax 75
obtain on demand but for the fact that it is lawfully receivable by a
receiver of any kind.
(3) For the purposes of this section, where gross income from a
source in Malaysia of the relevant person consists of interest that
relates to a loan—
(a) between persons one of whom has control over the other;
(aa) between individuals who are relatives of each other; or
(b) between persons both of whom are controlled by some
other person,
the relevant person is deemed to be able to obtain on demand the
receipt of such interest when such interest is due to be paid to the
relevant person in the relevant period.
(4) Subject to subsection (3) and for the purposes of this section,
where a relevant person is entitled to any gross income—
(a) accruing in or derived from Malaysia to which
section 25, section 27 other than subsection 27(1A), or
section 28 applies;
(b) the amount of which relates to any transactions—
(i) between persons one of whom has control over the
other;
(ii) between individuals who are relatives of each
other; or
(iii) between persons both of whom are controlled by
some other persons; and
(c) the amount of which first becomes receivable to the
relevant person in the relevant period,


the relevant person is deemed to be able to obtain on demand the
receipt of such amount in the basis period immediately following the
relevant period.
(5) In this section, “relative” and “transaction” have the meanings
assigned to them under subsection 140(8).
Special provisions applicable to gross income from a business
30. (1) Where a deduction has been made under subsection 34(2) in
ascertaining the adjusted income of the relevant person from a business
for the basis period for a year of assessment, that basis period being
prior to the relevant period, then—
(a) if the deduction has been made in respect of a debt
estimated to have become wholly irrecoverable, any sum
recovered on account of the debt by that person in the
relevant period shall be treated as gross income of the
relevant person from the business for the relevant period;
and
(b) if the deduction has been made in respect of a debt
estimated to have become partly irrecoverable and there
has been received by that person in respect of the debt a
sum (or an aggregate of sums) in excess of the amount
of that part of the debt not estimated to have become
irrecoverable, so much of that excess as is recovered by
him in the relevant period shall be treated as gross
income of the relevant person from the business for the
relevant period.
(2) Where during the relevant period any sum is refunded to the
relevant person—
(a) on account of payroll tax paid by him in respect of
remuneration paid by him to any person employed by
him in the production of his gross income from a


Income Tax 77
business for the relevant period or any basis period
ending prior to the relevant period; or
(b) on account of turnover tax paid by him in respect of the
turnover of the business,
the sum refunded shall be treated as gross income of his from the
business derived from Malaysia for the relevant period.
(3) Where during the relevant period—
(a) recovered expenditure (within the meaning of Schedule
2) is recovered by or on behalf of the relevant person in
connection with a business of his which includes the
working of a mine; and
(b) the total recovered expenditure so recovered exceeds the
aggregate of—
(i) the residual expenditure (within the meaning of
that Schedule) at the date on which that period
begins; and
(ii) the qualifying mining expenditure (within the
meaning of that Schedule) incurred by him during
that period,
the amount of the excess shall be treated as gross income of the
relevant person from the business for the relevant period.
(4) Where—
(a) a deduction has been made under subsection 33(1) in
computing the adjusted income of the relevant person
from a business for the basis period for a year of
assessment (that basis period being prior to the relevant
period) in respect of any outgoing or expense (including
any sum payable, rent payable or expense incurred of the
kind described in paragraph 33(1)(a), (b) or (c)); or


(b) any allowance or aggregate amount of allowances has
been made under section 42 in computing the statutory
income of the relevant person from a business for the
basis period for a year of assessment (that basis period
being prior to the relevant period) in respect of any
expenditure incurred under Schedule 3,
and the whole or any part of a debt in respect of any such outgoing,
expense, sum, rent or expenditure is released in the relevant period, the
amount released shall be treated as gross income of the relevant person
from that business for the relevant period.
31. (Deleted by Act 624).
Special provisions applicable to gross income from an employment
32. (1) Where in the relevant period there has been the use or
enjoyment by the relevant person of any benefit or amenity of the kind
to which paragraph 13(1)(b) applies, the amount in respect thereof to
be included in his gross income from the employment for the relevant
period shall be an amount equal to the value of that use or enjoyment
as ascertained by whatever method is just and reasonable in the
circumstances.
(1A) (a) Where in the relevant period a relevant person
acquired any right to acquire shares in a company of the kind to
which paragraph 13(1)(a) applies, under his name or in the name
of his nominee or agent, the amount in respect thereof to be
included in his gross income from the employment shall be—
(i) the market value of the shares where the right shall
be exercised, assigned, released or acquired on a
specified date or where the right shall be
exercised, assigned, released or acquired within a
specified period, the first day of that period; or


Income Tax 79
(ii) the market value of the shares on the date of the
exercise, assignment, release or acquisition of the
right,
whichever is the lower less the amount paid for the shares.
(b) In this subsection, “market value” means—
(i) in the case of a company listed on any stock
exchange, the average price of the shares which is
ascertained by averaging the highest and the
lowest price of the shares for the day; or
(ii) in any other case, the net asset value of the shares
for the day.
(2) Where in the relevant period there has been the use or
enjoyment by the relevant person of living accommodation of the
kind to which paragraph 13(1)(c) applies, then, subject to
subsection (3), the amount in respect thereof to be included in his
gross income from the employment for the relevant period shall
be—
(a) an amount equal to the defined value of the living
accommodation for the relevant period or an amount
equal to thirty per cent of the gross income which by
virtue of paragraph 13(1)(a) and section 25 or 28 falls to
be included in his gross income from the employment
for the relevant period, whichever is the less; or
(b) where the living accommodation is provided in—
(i) a hotel, hostel or similar premises;
(ii) any premises on a plantation or in a forest; or
(iii) any premises which, although in a rateable area,
are not subject to public rates,


an amount equal to three per cent of the gross income
which by virtue of paragraph 13(1)(a) and section 25 or
28 falls to be included in his gross income from the
employment for the relevant period.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), where in the relevant period
there has been the use and enjoyment by the relevant person of living
accommodation of the kind to which paragraph 13(1)(c) applies,
then—
(a) where the relevant person’s employer is a company and
the relevant person at any time during the relevant period
is a director of the company (not being a service director)
while the company is a controlled company, then,
whether or not he is a director at the time of the use and
enjoyment, the amount to be included in his gross
income for the relevant period shall be the defined value
of the accommodation for the relevant period or, if the
accommodation is wholly or partly shared with other
employees, such proportion of the defined value as is
just and reasonable;
(b) where the living accommodation is provided for only a
part of the relevant period, the amount to be included in
his gross income for the relevant period under
subsection (2) or this subsection shall be reduced in such
a proportion, if any, as is just and reasonable having
regard to all the circumstances;
(c) where the living accommodation (except in a case to
which paragraph (a) or paragraph (2)(b) applies) is
provided in such circumstances that—
(i) it is to be wholly or partly shared with other
employees;
(ii) the relevant person is required by the employer to
reside therein; or


Income Tax 81
(iii) the relevant person is required or expected by the
employer to use it for the advancement of the
employer’s interests by the provision of hospitality
or otherwise and, in order that it may be so used, it
is larger or more valuable accommodation than the
relevant person would otherwise need,
the amount to be included in his gross income for the relevant
period under paragraph (2)(a) shall be so much of the defined
value of the accommodation for the relevant period as is just
and reasonable or thirty per cent of the gross income which by
virtue of paragraph 13(1)(a) and section 25 or 28 falls to be
included in his gross income from the employment for the
relevant period, whichever is the less (that amount being
reduced in any case to which paragraph (b) applies in such a
proportion, if any, as is just and reasonable having regard to all
the circumstances).
(4) For the purposes of this section, the amount of gross income
from the employment mentioned in paragraphs (2)(a), (b) and (3)(c)
shall not include the amount of gross income in respect of any right to
acquire shares in a company ascertained under subsection (1A).
Chapter 4 - Adjusted income and adjusted loss
Adjusted income generally
33. (1) Subject to this Act, the adjusted income of a person from a
source for the basis period for a year of assessment shall be an amount
ascertained by deducting from the gross income of that person from
that source for that period all outgoings and expenses wholly and
exclusively incurred during that period by that person in the production
of gross income from that source, including—
(a) subject to subsection (2), any sum payable for that period
(or for any part of that period) by way of interest upon
any money borrowed by that person and—


(i) employed in that period in the production of gross
income from that source; or
(ii) laid out on assets used or held in that period for the
production of gross income from that source;
(b) rent payable for that period (or for any part of that
period) by that person in respect of any land or building
or part thereof occupied by him in that period for the
purpose of producing gross income from that source;
(c) expenses incurred during that period for the repair of
premises, plant, machinery or fixtures employed in the
production of gross income from that source or for the
renewal, repair or alteration of any implement, utensil or
article so employed, other than implements, utensils,
articles (the expenditure on which would be qualifying
plant expenditure for the purposes of Schedule 3) or any
means of conveyance, excluding the cost of
reconstructing or rebuilding—
(i) any premises, buildings, structures or works of a
permanent nature;
(ii) any plant or machinery; or
(iii) any fixtures; and
(d) such other deductions as may be prescribed.
(2) Where a person, being a person to whom paragraph (1)(a)
applies in relation to gross income from a business of his for the basis
period for a year of assessment and in relation to borrowed money, has
made (otherwise than for the purpose of producing that gross income)
any loan of money or any investment in movable or immovable
property, and the loan or any part thereof is outstanding at any time in
that period or the investment or any part thereof is held by him at any
time in that period and it appears to the Director General that the loan
or any part thereof or the investment or any part thereof has been


Income Tax 83
financed wholly or partly or directly or indirectly out of the borrowed
money—
(a) the total sum payable for that period or any part thereof
by way of interest on that borrowed money shall be
deemed to accrue evenly over that period or part thereof,
and so much of that sum as is thus found to accrue during
each calendar month shall be taken to be the monthly
figure for the purposes of this subsection;
(b) if at the end of any calendar month the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of the loan then outstanding if any; and
(ii) the cost of so much of the investment as is held by
him at that time if any,
is less than the amount of that borrowed money, the
monthly figure for that month shall be reduced by an
amount which bears to that monthly figure the same
proportion as that aggregate bears to the amount of that
borrowed money or by an amount which in the opinion
of the Director General is just and reasonable in all the
circumstances;
(c) if at the end of any calendar month the aggregate
mentioned in the preceding paragraph is more than the
amount of that borrowed money, the monthly figure for
that month shall be reduced to nil or to an amount which
in the opinion of the Director General is just and
reasonable in all the circumstances; and
(d) the amount of the deduction to be made for that period
in respect of that borrowed money shall be an amount
consisting of the aggregate of—
(i) the monthly figures for all calendar months to
which paragraph (b) or (c) applies, as reduced by
either of those paragraphs; and


(ii) the monthly figures for the other calendar months.
(3) In subsection (2) “calendar month”, in relation to a basis period
or part thereof, means a period which is included in that basis period
or part thereof and is either—
(a) one of the twelve months of the Gregorian calendar; or
(b) where that basis period or part thereof includes a part,
but not the whole, of such a month, that part of that
month.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a) and subsection (2), where
any sum payable for a basis period for a year of assessment is not due
to be paid in that period, the sum shall when it is due to be paid be
deducted in arriving at the adjusted income of a person for that period.
(5) For the purpose of subsection (4), where any sum payable for a
basis period for a year of assessment is due to be paid in any following
year of assessment—
(a) a person shall notify the Director General in writing of
the deduction in respect of the sum not later than twelve
months from the end of the basis period for the year of
assessment when the sum is due to be paid; and
(b) upon receipt of the notice, the Director General may
reduce the assessment that has been made in respect of
such sum.
Special provisions applicable to adjusted income from a business
34. (1) In ascertaining the adjusted income of a person from a
business for the basis period for a year of assessment, deductions shall
be made from the gross income from the business for that period in
accordance with the following subsections (the person, business,
period and gross income in question being referred to in those


Income Tax 85
subsections as the relevant person, the business, the relevant period
and the relevant gross income respectively).
(2) There shall be deducted in the case of any debt as defined in
subsection (3)—
(a) if at the end of the relevant period the debt is reasonably
estimated in all the circumstances of the case to be
wholly irrecoverable, an amount equal to the amount of
the debt;
(b) if at the end of the relevant period the debt is reasonably
estimated in all the circumstances of the case to be partly
irrecoverable, an amount equal to so much of the debt as
is estimated to be irrecoverable,
the deduction being in either case reduced by the amount of any
deduction made under this subsection in respect of the debt for the
basis period for a year of assessment prior to the year of assessment to
which the relevant period relates.
(3) In subsection (2) “debt” means—
(a) a debt arising in respect of any matter referred to in
subsection 24(1) or in respect of interest of the kind
referred to in subsection 24(5), where the amount of any
such debt has been included in the relevant gross income
or in the gross income of the relevant person from the
business for the basis period for a year of assessment
prior to the year of assessment to which the relevant
period relates; or
(b) a debt arising in respect of a loan of the kind mentioned
in subsection 24(5) granted in the course of carrying on
the business in the relevant period or in the basis period
for any such prior year of assessment.
(3A) (Deleted by Act 785).


(3B) (Deleted by Act 785).
(4) Where in the relevant period the relevant person has made a
contribution to an approved scheme in respect of an employee of his,
then—
(a) if the employee’s remuneration as determined under the
rules, regulations, by-laws or constitution of that scheme
for the period for which the contribution is made (that
period being a period which coincides with or overlaps
the relevant period) is deductible as a whole, or in parts
aggregating the whole, in computing the adjusted
income from the business for any basis period or periods
for a year or years of assessment in relation to the
business, there may be deducted from the relevant gross
income an amount equal to the contribution or nineteen
per cent of the employee’s remuneration as so
determined for the period for which the contribution is
made, whichever is the less;
(b) if only a part or parts of that remuneration is or are so
deductible, there may be deducted from the relevant
gross income an amount equal to so much of the
contribution or of that percentage of the remuneration
(whichever of those amounts is the less) as bears to the
whole of the contribution or to that percentage of the
remuneration, as the case may be, the same proportion
as that part or the aggregate of those parts, as the case
may be, bears to the whole of that remuneration.
(5) Where on the first establishment of a scheme of the kind referred
to in subsection (4) a special contribution thereto is made in the
relevant period by the relevant person whereby any of his employees
engaged in activities relating to the production of the relevant gross
income or gross income of the relevant person from the business for
the basis period for a year of assessment (that basis period being prior
to the relevant period) may qualify for the benefits under that scheme,
the Director General may when approving that scheme authorize
deductions in respect of that special contribution of such amounts


Income Tax 87
(being amounts which in total are equal to or less than the special
contribution) from the gross income of the relevant person from the
business for the basis periods for such years of assessment as he thinks
fit.
(6) There may be deducted from the relevant gross income—
(a) an amount equal to any payroll tax paid by the relevant
person in the relevant period in respect of any
remuneration paid by him to any person employed by
him in the production of gross income of his from the
business;
(b) an amount equal to any turnover tax in respect of the
turnover of the business paid by the relevant person in
the relevant period;
(c) where any part of the relevant gross income is derived
from the working of a mine, such amounts in respect of
capital expenditure as may be allowed for the relevant
period pursuant to Schedule 2;
(d) where any part of the relevant gross income is derived
from the working of a farm relating to cultivation of
crops, an amount equal to any expense (not being an
expense which is qualifying expenditure or qualifying
agriculture expenditure for the purposes of Schedule 3
or incurred in the acquisition of land or anything
growing thereon) incurred by the relevant person in the
relevant period in replanting the farm for the purposes of
cultivation of crops or in effecting any improvement of
the farm or any part of the farm in connection with such
replanting;
(e) an amount equal to the amount of expenditure incurred
by the relevant person in the relevant period on the
provision of any equipment, or on the alteration or
renovation of premises, necessary to assist any disabled


person employed by him in the production of gross
income of his from the business;
(f) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by the
relevant person in the relevant period in respect of
translation into or publication in the national language of
cultural, literary, professional, scientific or technical
books approved by the Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka;
(g) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by the
relevant person in the relevant period on the provision of
library facilities which are accessible to the public and
in respect of contributions to public libraries and
libraries of schools and institutions of higher education:
Provided that the amount that may be deducted shall
not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit;
(h) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by the
relevant person in the relevant period on the provision of
services, public amenities and contributions to a charity
or community project pertaining to education, health,
housing, conservation or preservation of environment,
enhancement of income of the poor, infrastructure,
information and communication technology or
maintenance of a building designated as a heritage site
by the Commissioner of Heritage under the
National Heritage Act 2005 [Act 645], approved by the
Minister:
Provided that where a deduction has been made under
this paragraph, no further deduction of the same amount
shall be allowed under subsection 44(6);
(ha) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by a
company on the provision of infrastructure in relation to
its business which is available for public use, subject to
the prior approval of the Minister:


Income Tax 89
Provided that where a deduction has been made under
this paragraph, no further deduction of the same amount
shall be allowed under subsection 44(6);
(i) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred, not being
capital expenditure on land, premises, buildings,
structures or works of a permanent nature or on
alterations, additions or extensions thereof or in the
acquisition of any rights in or over any property, by the
relevant person in the relevant period on the provision
and maintenance of a child care centre for the benefit of
persons employed by him in his business;
(j) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by the
relevant person in the relevant period in establishing and
managing a musical or cultural group approved by the
Minister;
(k) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by the
relevant person in the relevant period for sponsoring any
arts, cultural or heritage activity approved by the
Minister charged with the responsibility for arts, culture
or heritage:
Provided that the amount deducted in respect of
expenditure incurred for sponsoring those activities shall
not in aggregate exceed one million ringgit of which the
amount deducted in respect of expenditure incurred in
sponsoring foreign arts, cultural or heritage activity shall
not exceed three hundred thousand ringgit;
(l) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by the
company in the relevant period on the provision of a
scholarship to a student for any course of study leading
to an award of a diploma, or degree (including a degree
at a Masters or Doctorate level) or the equivalent of a
diploma or degree undertaken at a higher educational
institution established or registered under the laws
regulating such establishment or registration in Malaysia


or authorized by any order made under section 5A of the
Universities and University Colleges Act 1971 [Act 30]:
Provided that the scholarship—
(a) shall only be given to a student—
(i) who is receiving full-time instruction at such
higher educational institution;
(ii) who has no means of his own; and
(iii) the total monthly income of whose parents
or guardian, as the case may be, does not
exceed five thousand ringgit; and
(b) shall not include payments other than payments
required by such higher educational institution
relating to the course of study, and educational
aids and reasonable cost of living expenses during
the student’s period of study at such higher
educational institution;
(m) an amount equal to the expenditure, not being capital
expenditure, incurred by a company in the relevant
period for the purpose of obtaining accreditation for a
laboratory or a certification body, as evidenced by a
certificate issued by the Department of Standards
Malaysia:
Provided that the expenditure incurred in the relevant
period shall be deemed to be incurred by that company
in the basis period for the year of assessment in which
the certificate is issued;
(ma) an amount twice the amount of the expenditure, not
being capital expenditure, incurred by a company in the
relevant period for the purpose of obtaining certification
for recognized quality systems and standards, and halal


Income Tax 91
certification, evidence by a certificate issued by a
certification body as determined by the Minister:
Provided that the expenditure incurred in the relevant
period shall be deemed to be incurred by that company
in the basis period for the year of assessment in which
the certificate is issued;
(n) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by a person
in the relevant period on the provision of practical
training in Malaysia, in relation to his business, to an
individual who is—
(i) resident in the basis year for a year of assessment; and
(ii) not an employee of that person; and
(o) an amount equal to the expenditure incurred by a
company in a relevant period for participating in
international standardization activities approved by the
department of Standards Malaysia.
(7) There may be deducted from the relevant gross income any
expenditure, not being capital expenditure incurred on plant,
machinery, fixtures, land, premises, buildings, structures or works of a
permanent nature or on alterations, additions or extensions thereof or
in the acquisition of any rights in or over any property, incurred by the
relevant person resident in Malaysia during the relevant period on
research and development related to the business and directly
undertaken by him or on his behalf.
(7A) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment an amount
in respect of any sum received by the relevant person which is treated
as part of the gross income of the relevant person in accordance with
subsection 24(1A) is refunded, such amount shall be deducted from the
relevant gross income of the relevant person for the basis period for
that year of assessment.


(8) Where any deduction in respect of any matter is capable of being
made under this section, no deduction or allowance in respect of that
matter shall be made under section 33 or Schedule 3, as the case may be.
Special deduction for research and development expenditure
34A. (1) Subject to this section, in ascertaining the adjusted income
of a person resident in Malaysia from a business for the basis period
for a year of assessment, a deduction shall be made, as specified in
subsection (4), from the gross income from the business for that period
in respect of expenditure, not being capital expenditure incurred on
plant, machinery, fixtures, land, premises, buildings, structures or
works of a permanent nature or on alterations, additions or extensions
thereof or in the acquisition of any rights in or over any property,
incurred by that person during that period on research and development
approved by the Minister and the amount of expenses on research and
development incurred during that period outside Malaysia shall not be
more than thirty per cent of the total expenses on research and
development incurred by that person—
(a) (Deleted by Act 693);
(b) (Deleted by Act 693).
(2) The Minister in approving the research and development
pursuant to subsection (1) may impose such conditions as he thinks
fit or may specify the period or periods for the purpose of
deduction under this section.
(3) (Deleted by Act 693).
(4) The amount of deduction to be made under subsection (1) shall
be twice the amount of expenditure, not being capital expenditure,
referred to in that subsection:
Provided that the amount of deduction to be made shall be the
amount of expenditure incurred—


Income Tax 93
(a) where the amount of expenses on research and
development incurred for the basis period for a year of
assessment outside Malaysia is more than thirty per cent
of the total expenses on research and development
incurred by that person; or
(b) where subsection (4A) applies.
(4A) A pioneer company resident in Malaysia may, in a return of
income for the year of assessment in which the expenditure referred to
in subsection (1) had been incurred, elect that the amount of that
expenditure be deducted in the first basis period in respect of its post-
pioneer business for a year of assessment.
(5) Where any deduction in respect of expenditure on research and
development is made under this section, no deduction in respect of that
expenditure shall be made under section 33 or 34.
(6) For the purposes of this section, the words “pioneer company”
and “post-pioneer business” have the respective meanings assigned to
them under the Promotion of Investments Act 1986 [Act 327].
Special deduction for contribution to an approved research
institute or payment for use of services of an approved research
institute or company
34B. (1) Subject to this section, in ascertaining the adjusted income
of a person resident in Malaysia from a business for the basis period
for a year of assessment, a deduction shall be made, as specified in
subsection (2), from the gross income from the business for that period
in respect of expenditure, not being capital expenditure, incurred by
that person during that period in respect of—
(a) contribution in cash to an approved research institute;
(b) payment for the use of the services of an approved
research institute or an approved research company; or


(c) payment for the use of the services of a research and
development company or a contract research and
development company.
(2) The amount of deduction to be made under subsection (1) shall
be twice the amount of expenditure, not being capital expenditure,
referred to in that subsection:
Provided that no deduction in respect of that expenditure shall be
made under this section to a person being a related company of a
research and development company which has been given approval
under subsection 27D(1) of the Promotion of Investments Act 1986 and
whose period as prescribed under paragraph 29E(2)(b) of that Act has
not ended.
(3) Where any deduction in respect of expenditure referred to in
subsection (1) is made under this section, no deduction in respect of
that expenditure shall be made under section 33, 34 or 34A.
(4) In this section—
(a) an “approved research institute” means an institute,
including a company licensed under section 24 of the
*Companies Act 1965, approved by the Minister to
mainly carry on research in an industry specified in the
approval and to commercially exploit the benefit of such
research thereof;
(b) an “approved research company” means a company,
other than a company licensed under section 24 of the
*Companies Act 1965, approved by the Minister to
mainly carry on research in an industry specified in the
approval and to commercially exploit the benefit of such
research thereof;
*NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [Act 125] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016
[Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017–see subsection 620(1) of Act 777.


Income Tax 95
(c) a “contract research and development company” and a
“research and development company” have the same
meaning assigned thereto in section 2 of the Promotion
of Investments Act 1986 and fulfils the conditions
specified by the relevant Ministry;
(d) a “related company” has the meaning assigned to it in
section 2 of the Promotion of Investments Act 1986.
Special provision applicable to adjusted income from a discount or
premium
34C. (1) Notwithstanding section 33 but subject to this section, in
ascertaining the adjusted income of a company from a source
consisting of discount or premium, any expenses in respect of the
discount or premium incurred on bond issued or subscribed, as the case
may be, by that company is deemed to accrue to the company over the
whole period of the bond and the amount to be deducted from the gross
income from that source for the basis period for a year of assessment
that relates to the period of the bond shall be a sum to be determined
in accordance with the following formula:
A x C
B
where A is the number of days in the basis period for the
year of assessment that falls within the period of
the bond;
B is the total number of days of the whole period
of the bond; and
C is the total amount of discount or premium
incurred in respect of the bond:
Provided that the Director General may allow the company to
consistently apply any other formula which is in accordance with the


generally accepted accounting principles applicable during that basis
period.
(1A) For the purpose of subsection (1), where by reason of an
insufficiency or absence of gross income of a company from a source
consisting of discount or premium for the basis period for a year of
assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any
amount of discount falling to be deducted to that company for that
basis period in relation to that source, that amount which has not been
so deducted shall be allowed as a deduction in arriving at the adjusted
income of that company from any source or sources consisting of a
business for that basis period:
Provided that the proceeds from the issuance of the bond that relates
to that amount are utilized wholly by that company for the production
of gross income from any source or sources consisting of that business.
(1B) This section shall not apply if in the basis period for a year of
assessment the bond issued or subscribed forms part of the stock in
trade of a business of a company.
(2) Where any deduction in respect of expenditure referred to in
subsection (1) or (1A) is made under this section, no deduction in
respect of that expenditure shall be made under section 33, 34, 34A
or 34B.
Special deduction for expenditure on treasury shares
34D. (1) Notwithstanding section 33 but subject to this section, in
ascertaining the adjusted income of a company from a business for the
basis period for a year of assessment, a deduction shall be made from
the gross income for that period any expenses incurred by that
company in acquiring treasury shares.
(2) The amount of deduction referred to in subsection (1) —


Income Tax 97
(a) shall be the cost of acquiring the treasury shares which
are transferred to its employee less any amount payable
by that employee for such treasury shares; and
(b) shall be allowed in the basis period for a year of
assessment where the employee exercised his rights to
acquire such treasury shares.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (2), the cost of acquiring treasury
shares which are transferred to its employee shall be determined on the
basis that the treasury shares acquired by the company at an earlier
point in time are deemed to be transferred first.
(4) Where any amount payable by an employee for any treasury shares
transferred to him exceeds the cost to the company of acquiring the
treasury shares transferred as provided under subsection (3), the amount
of the excess shall be credited to an account to be kept by the company
for the purpose of this section.
(5) Where there is any balance in the account kept by the company
under subsection (4) and any treasury shares are subsequently
transferred by the company to any employee under subsection (1), the
cost to the company of acquiring the treasury shares as determined
under subsection (3) shall be reduced —
(a) where the amount of the balance is equal to or exceeds
the amount of the cost, to zero; or
(b) where the amount of the balance is less than the amount
of the cost, by the amount of the balance,
and the amount of the reduction shall be debited to the account.
(6) For the purpose of this section, a company transfers treasury
shares held by it to an employee when the employee acquires the legal
and beneficial interest in the treasury shares.


(7) Where a holding company transfers treasury shares held by it to
any employee employed at any time by a subsidiary company of the
holding company who has the right to acquire such shares —
(a) no deduction shall be allowed to the holding company
under subsection (1);
(b) if any amount is paid or payable by the subsidiary
company to the holding company for the transfer of the
treasury shares, there shall be allowed to the subsidiary
company, on the date of the transfer of the shares or of
the payment to the holding company for the shares,
whichever is the later, a deduction under subsection (1)
for the amount, or an amount equal to the cost to the
holding company of acquiring the treasury shares
transferred to the employee of the subsidiary less any
amount payable by that employee for the treasury shares,
whichever is less.
Stock in trade
35. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Part, in
ascertaining the adjusted income of a person from a business for the
basis period for a year of assessment, the value of the stock in trade of
the business at the beginning and at the end of that period shall be taken
into account in accordance with the following subsections (that person,
business, period and stock in trade being referred to in those
subsections as the relevant person, the business, the relevant period
and the stock respectively).
(2) Where the value of the stock at the end of the relevant period
exceeds the value of the stock at the beginning of the relevant period,
the total of all amounts otherwise deductible under this Act in
ascertaining the adjusted income of the relevant person from the
business for the relevant period shall be reduced by the amount of the
excess; and, where the value of the stock at the beginning of the
relevant period exceeds the value of the stock at the end of the relevant


Income Tax 99
period, the total of all amounts otherwise so deductible shall be
increased by the amount of the excess.
(3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5)—
(a) the value of any particular item of the stock at the end of
the relevant period shall be taken to be—
(i) an amount equal to its market value at that time; or
(ii) if the relevant person so elects and that item is
physically tangible, an amount equal to the total
cost to him of acquiring that item (or any materials
used in its manufacture, preparation or
construction) and bringing it to its condition and
location at that time:
Provided that in the case of any item of the stock
consisting of immovable properties, stocks, shares or
marketable securities, the value thereof at the end of the
relevant period shall be taken to be an amount equal to
its cost price to that relevant person or its market value
at that time, whichever is the lower;
(b) the value of any particular item of the stock at the
beginning of the relevant period (except where the
business was commenced by the relevant person in the
relevant period) shall be taken to be an amount equal to
its value as ascertained under paragraph (a) at the end of
the basis period for the year of assessment immediately
preceding the year of assessment to which the relevant
period relates.
(4) Where—
(a) by virtue of section 41 this Chapter applies in relation to
the business as if an accounting period were the relevant
period; and


(b) a previous period for which the accounts of the business
were made up ended immediately prior to that
accounting period,
the reference in paragraph (3)(b) to the basis period for the year of
assessment immediately preceding the year of assessment to which the
relevant period relates shall be construed as a reference to that previous
period.
(5) Where during the relevant period the relevant person
permanently ceases to carry on the business, then—
(a) if—
(i) at or about the time he so ceases any of what was
the stock in trade of the business is sold or
transferred for valuable consideration by that
person to another person and that other person
intends to use that transferred stock in the business
or in another business of his; and
(ii) the cost of that transferred stock to that other
person is deductible as an expense in computing
that other person’s adjusted income for the basis
period for a year of assessment from the business
or from that other business of his,
the value of that transferred stock at the time he so
ceases shall be taken to be an amount equal to the price
paid on the sale or to the value of the consideration, as
the case may be, and shall be taken to be the value of
that stock at the end of the relevant period;
(b) the value of any of what was at the time he so ceases the
stock in trade of the business to which paragraph (a)
does not apply shall be taken to be an amount equal to
its market value at the time he so ceases and shall be
taken to be the value thereof at the end of the relevant
period;


Income Tax 101
(c) for the purposes of paragraph (a)—
(i) where any of the stock in trade is sold or
transferred for a consideration in cash or its
equivalent with other assets of the business, the
total consideration given for that transferred stock
in trade and those assets shall be apportioned in
such manner as is just and reasonable;
(ii) where any of the stock in trade is transferred (with
or without other assets) for a consideration other
than cash or its equivalent, the value of the
consideration shall be taken to be an amount equal
to the market value of the consideration at the date
of the transfer and, if that stock in trade is
transferred with other assets, that amount shall be
apportioned in such manner as is just and
reasonable; and
(iii) where any of the stock in trade is transferred (with
or without other assets) for a consideration which
partly does and partly does not consist of cash or
its equivalent, the value of the consideration shall
be taken to be an amount equal to that cash or its
equivalent together with the market value of the
rest of the consideration and, if that stock in trade
is transferred with other assets, that amount shall
be apportioned in such manner as is just and
reasonable; and
(d) where any stock in trade is sold or transferred to another
person in a case to which paragraph (a) applies, the cost
to that other person of that stock in trade shall in
computing the adjusted income of that person from the
business (or from any other business of his in which he
uses or intends to use any of that stock in trade) be taken
to be an amount equal to its value as ascertained under
that paragraph.


Power to direct special treatment in the computation of business
income in certain cases
36. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Part, where the
Director General is satisfied that there is a need for some treatment in
computing—
(a) the gross income from a business with respect to—
(i) a hire-purchase transaction;
(ii) a transaction under which a debt is payable by
instalments;
(iii) a lease transaction in respect of moveable property;
(iv) any other transaction involving a debt or stock
in trade; or
(v) such other transaction as may be prescribed; and
(b) the adjusted income and statutory income from the
business,
he may give directions and formulate regulations to be published in the
Gazette for special treatment with respect to any such transaction,
either in relation to a particular business or in relation to any business
having any such transaction:
Provided that no such directions and regulations shall have effect in
relation to a business for any year of assessment with respect to which
an assessment wholly or partly relating to income from that business
has become final and conclusive or is the subject of an appeal which
has been sent forward to the Special Commissioners.
(2) Any direction given under subsection (1) with respect to the
gross income, adjusted income and statutory income from a business
or businesses may—


Income Tax 103
(a) provide that the gross income to which it relates (or any
part thereof) shall be taken to be gross income for such
basis period or periods for such year or years of
assessment with respect to that business or those
businesses as may be specified in the direction;
(b) provide for special treatment with respect to the
ascertainment of the adjusted income and statutory
income from that business or those businesses for the
basis period or periods for any year or years of
assessment.
37. (Deleted by Act 624).
Special provisions applicable to adjusted income from an
employment
38. (1) Subject to this section—
(a) where an employee’s gross income from an employment
includes for the basis period for a year of assessment any
amount ascertained in accordance with subsection 32(1)
in respect of any benefit or amenity consisting of
furniture provided by or on behalf of his employer in
conjunction with living accommodation, there may be
deducted from that gross income the amount of any rent
payable by that employee for that period for that
accommodation and furniture, less the amount of any
deduction made in respect of that rent under
paragraph (b); and
(b) where an employee’s gross income from an employment
includes for the basis period for a year of assessment any
amount ascertained in accordance with subsection 32(2)
or (3) in respect of living accommodation provided by or
on behalf of his employer, there may be deducted from
that gross income expenses of the following kind:


(i) the amount of any public rates or insurance
premiums payable by the employee in respect of
that accommodation for that period;
(ii) any expenses incurred for the repair or
maintenance of the premises (excluding expenses
of a capital nature and expenses incurred in
connection with the upkeep of land attached to the
premises for use by way of amenity as garden or
grounds) which the employee, pursuant to the
terms on which that accommodation is so
provided, is legally bound to meet in respect of
that accommodation during that period;
(iii) where the accommodation is provided
unfurnished, any rent payable by the employee for
that accommodation for that period;
(iv) where the accommodation is provided furnished
and is held by or on behalf of the employer on
lease at what would be an economic rent if so
much of the rent as relates to the furniture were to
be disregarded, so much of any rent payable by the
employee for that period as bears to the whole of
the rent so payable the same proportion as the
economic rent of the accommodation bears to the
rent payable by or on behalf of the employer for
that period; and
(v) where the accommodation is provided furnished
and subparagraph (iv) does not apply, so much of
any rent payable by the employee for that period
as bears to the whole rent so payable the same
proportion as the defined value of the
accommodation bears to the aggregate of the
economic rent for that period and the rent for that
period appropriate to the market value of the


Income Tax 105
furniture provided in conjunction with that
accommodation.
(2) Where living accommodation is provided for only part of a basis
period, the expenses referred to in paragraph (1)(b) shall be restricted
to such of those expenses as are payable for that part under that
subsection or as are bound to be met during that part under that
subsection, as the case may be.
(3) The total amount deducted under this section from an
employee’s gross income from an employment for the basis period for
a year of assessment shall not exceed the total of the amounts included
in that gross income—
(a) by virtue of subsection 32(1) in respect of any benefit or
amenity consisting of furniture provided by or on behalf of
an employer in conjunction with living accommodation;
and
(b) by virtue of subsection 32(2) or (3).
(4) Where an employee’s gross income from an employment
includes for the basis period for a year of assessment any amount
ascertained in accordance with subsection 32(2) or (3) in respect of
living accommodation provided by or on behalf of his employer, any
expense to which subparagraph (1)(b)(ii) applies in relation to that
basis period (or a part of that basis period) shall, if it is payable for a
period which overlaps that basis period or that part, be apportioned in
the manner provided by subsection (6); and for the purposes of this
section regard shall be had only to so much of that expense as is so
apportioned to that basis period or that part.
(5) Where any amount is included in gross income—
(a) by virtue of subsection 32(1) in respect of any benefit or
amenity consisting of furniture provided by or on behalf of
an employer in conjunction with living accommodation; or
(b) by virtue of subsection 32(2) or (3),


no deduction shall be made under section 33 in respect of any
outgoings and expenses incurred or which might be included as
incurred in the production of that part of the gross income consisting
of that amount.
(6) In the application of subsection (4) in relation to a person’s gross
income from his employment where the expenses, to which
subparagraph (1)(b)(ii) applies is payable for a period (in this
subsection referred to as the “overlapping period”) which overlaps the
basis period or part of the basis period, the amount of the expense to
be deducted from that gross income shall be determined in accordance
with the following formula:
A x C
B
where A is the number of days living accommodation is
provided in the basis period or part of the basis
period that falls in the overlapping period;
B is the total number of days in the overlapping
period; and
C is the amount of expenses to which
subparagraph (1)(b)(ii) applies.
Limitation on deduction of entertainment expenses
38A. Where an employee’s gross income from an employment under
subsection 13(1) includes for the basis period for a year of assessment
any entertainment allowance, the amount of expenses deductible under
subsection 33(1) in respect of entertainment by the employee, shall not
exceed the amount of such entertainment allowance included in that
gross income.


Income Tax 107
Deductions not allowed
39. (1) Subject to any express provision of this Act, in ascertaining
the adjusted income of any person from any source for the basis period
for a year of assessment no deduction from the gross income from that
source for that period shall be allowed in respect of—
(a) domestic or private expenses;
(b) any disbursements or expenses not being money wholly
and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of
producing the gross income;
(c) any capital withdrawn or any sum employed or intended
to be employed as capital;
(d) any amount in respect of any payment to any pension,
provident, savings, widows, widowers and orphans or
other similar fund or society which is not an approved
scheme;
(e) any expenditure incurred in relation to a business, being
expenditure which is—
(i) qualifying mining expenditure for the purposes of
Schedule 2;
(ii) qualifying expenditure, qualifying agriculture
expenditure or qualifying forest expenditure for
the purposes of Schedule 3; or
(iii) qualifying prospecting expenditure for the
purposes of Schedule 4,
and which but for this paragraph would be deductible in
ascertaining the adjusted income from the business;
(f) interest or royalty derived from Malaysia from which tax
is deductible under section 109, if tax has not been


deducted therefrom and paid to the Director General in
accordance with subsection (1) of that section:
Provided that—
(i) this paragraph shall not apply if the payer has paid
the amount referred to in subsection (2) of that
section; and
(ii) where such tax is deducted or such amount is paid
after the due date for the furnishing of a return for
a year of assessment that relates to such payment,
the tax or amount so paid shall not prejudice the
imposition of penalty under subsection 113(2) if a
deduction on such payment is made in such return
or is claimed in the information given to the
Director General in arriving at the adjusted income
of the payer;
(g) any sum, by whatever name called, payable (otherwise
than to a State Government or with the approval of the
Minister, a statutory authority, or other body the capital
or fund of which is wholly or substantially owned by a
State Government or a statutory authority) for the use of
a licence or permit to extract timber from a forest in
Malaysia;
(h) (Deleted by Act 619);
(i) any contract payment from which tax is deductible
under section 107A, if tax has not been deducted
therefrom and paid to the Director General in
accordance with subsection (1) of that section:
Provided that—
(i) this paragraph shall not apply if the payer has paid
the amount referred to in subsection (2) of that
section; and


Income Tax 109
(ii) where such tax is deducted or such amount is paid
after the due date for the furnishing of a return for
a year of assessment that relates to such payment,
the tax or amount so paid shall not prejudice the
imposition of penalty under subsection 113(2) if a
deduction on such payment is made in such return
or is claimed in the information given to the
Director General in arriving at the adjusted income
of the payer;
(j) any payments from which tax is deductible under
section 109B, or 109F if tax has not been deducted
therefrom and paid to the Director General in
accordance with subsection (1) of that section:
Provided that—
(i) this paragraph shall not apply if the payer has paid
the amount referred to in subsection (2) of that
section; and
(ii) where such tax is deducted or such amount is paid
after the due date for the furnishing of a return for
a year of assessment that relates to such payment,
the tax or amount so paid shall not prejudice the
imposition of penalty under subsection 113(2) if a
deduction on such payment is made in such return
or is claimed in the information given to the
Director General in arriving at the adjusted income
of the payer;
(k) any sum paid by way of rentals in respect of a motor
vehicle, other than a motor vehicle licensed by the
appropriate authority for commercial transportation of
goods or passengers, in excess of fifty thousand ringgit:
Provided that if the motor vehicle has not been used
by any person for any purpose prior to the rental and the


total cost of the motor vehicle does not exceed one
hundred and fifty thousand ringgit, any sum paid by way
of rental in excess of one hundred thousand ringgit:
Provided further that the maximum amount of
deduction in respect of the rentals of such motor vehicle
in the year of assessment and subsequent years of
assessment shall not in the aggregate exceed fifty
thousand ringgit or one hundred thousand ringgit, as the
case may be, in respect of that motor vehicle;
(l) a sum equal to fifty percent of any expenses incurred in
the provision of entertainment including any sums paid
to an employee of that person for the purpose of
defraying expenses incurred by that employee in the
provision of entertainment:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to the
following expenses:
(i) the provision of entertainment to his employees
except where such provision is incidental to the
provision of entertainment for others;
(ii) the provision of entertainment by a person who
carries on a business which consists of or includes
the provision for payment of entertainment to
clients or customers of that business and that
entertainment is provided for payment by the
clients or customers in the ordinary course of that
business;
(iii) the provision of promotional gifts at trade fairs or
trade or industrial exhibitions held outside
Malaysia for the promotion of exports from
Malaysia;
(iv) the provision of promotional samples of products
of the business of that person;


Income Tax 111
(v) the provision of entertainment for cultural or
sporting events open to members of the public,
wholly to promote the business of that person;
(vi) the provision of promotional gifts within Malaysia
consisting of articles incorporating a conspicuous
advertisement or logo of the business; or
(vii) the provision of entertainment which is related
wholly to sales arising from the business of that
person;
(viii) the provision of a benefit or amenity to an
employee consisting of a leave passage to
facilitate a yearly event within Malaysia which
involves the employer, the employee and the
immediate family members of that employee; or
(m) notwithstanding subparagraph (l)(i), and subject to
subparagraph (l)(viii) any expenditure incurred in the
provision of a benefit or amenity to an employee
consisting of a leave passage within or outside Malaysia;
(n) any remuneration or any similar payment paid to a
partner of a limited liability partnership where such
remuneration or payment is not specified or provided in
the limited liability partnership agreement made in
accordance with section 9 of the
Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2012;
(o) any amount paid or to be paid in respect of goods and
services tax as input tax by the person if he is liable to
be registered under the Goods and Services Tax Act
2014 and has failed to do so, or if he is entitled under
that Act to credit that amount as input tax;
(p) any amount of output tax paid or to be paid under the
Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 which is borne by the


person if he is registered or liable to be registered under
that Act;
(q) any remuneration or other income in respect of services
performed or rendered in Malaysia by a public
entertainer from which tax is deductible under section
109A, if tax has not been deducted therefrom and paid to
the Director General in accordance with that section:
Provided that—
(i) this paragraph shall not apply if the payer has paid
the amount of tax and the increased sum due from
him to the Government in accordance with
subsection 109(2); and
(ii) where such amount of tax and the increased sum
are paid after the due date for the furnishing of a
return for a year of assessment that relates to such
tax and the increased sum, the amount of tax and
the increased sum so paid shall not prejudice the
imposition of penalty under subsection 113(2) if a
deduction on such payment is made in such return
or is claimed in the information given to the
Director General in arriving at the adjusted income
of the payer;
(r) subject to any rules as may be prescribed by the Minister,
any amount in respect of a payment made by a person,
who is a resident, to any Labuan entity referred to in
paragraph 2B(1)(a) of the Labuan Business Activity Tax
Act 1990; or
(s) any payment from which tax is deductible under
section 107D, if tax has not been deducted therefrom and
paid to the Director General in accordance with that
section:
Provided that—


Income Tax 113
(i) this paragraph shall not apply if the payer has paid
the amount of tax and the increased sum due from
him to the Government in accordance with
subsection 107D(3); and
(ii) where such amount of tax and the increased sum
are paid after the due date for the furnishing of a
return for a year of assessment that relates to such
tax and the increased sum, the amount of tax and
the increased sum so paid shall not prejudice the
imposition of penalty under subsection 113(2) if a
deduction on such payment is made in such return
or is claimed in the information given to the
Director General in arriving at the adjusted income
of the payer.
(1A) Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, where a person is
required under section 81 to furnish to the Director General any
information within the time specified in a notice or such other time as
may be allowed by the Director General, and that information concerns
wholly or in part a deduction claimed by that person in arriving at the
adjusted income of that person from any source for the basis period for
a year of assessment, no deduction from the gross income from that
source for that period shall be allowed in respect of such claim if the
person fails to provide such information within the time specified in
that notice or such extended time as allowed by the Director General.
(2) It is hereby declared that section 33, except in so far as it relates
to expenses of the kind specified in paragraphs (1)(a) to (d) thereof, is
not an express provision of this Act within the meaning of this section.
(3) Paragraphs (1)(f), (i) and (j) shall not apply if for a year of
assessment a person is exempt under paragraph 127(3)(b) or
subsection 127(3A) or the Promotion of Investments Act 1986, in
respect of all income of that person from all sources not being
exemption on income equal to capital expenditure incurred.


Adjusted loss
40. Subject to this Act, where but for an insufficiency of gross income
of a person from a business for the basis period for a year of assessment
there would have been an amount of adjusted income of that person
from the business for that period, the amount by which the total of all
such deductions as would then have been allowed under the foregoing
provisions of this Chapter in ascertaining that adjusted income exceeds
his gross income from the business for that period shall be taken to be
the amount of his adjusted loss from the business for that period.
Ascertainment of adjusted income or adjusted loss from a business
for an accounting period
41. (1) Subject to this section, where for the purposes of this Act it
is necessary to ascertain the adjusted income or adjusted loss of a
person from a business for the basis period for a year of assessment
(that basis period being in this section referred to as the relevant
period) and accounts of the business have not been made up for the
relevant period—
(a) that person’s adjusted income or adjusted loss from the
business shall be ascertained for any accounting period
for which accounts of the business have been made up
(being a period which either falls into or overlaps the
relevant period) by applying Chapters 3 and 4, whenever
and as often as may be necessary, as if that accounting
period were the basis period for that year of assessment;
(b) such apportionment of the adjusted income or adjusted
loss for any such accounting period, and such
aggregation of the adjusted income or adjusted loss for
any such accounting period (or of any apportioned part
thereof) with the adjusted income or adjusted loss (or
any apportioned part thereof) for any other such
accounting period, shall be made as is necessary to arrive
at the adjusted income or the adjusted loss for the
relevant period; and


Income Tax 115
(c) the adjusted income or the adjusted loss so arrived at
shall constitute the adjusted income or the adjusted loss,
as the case may be, from the business for the relevant
period.
(2) The apportionment referred to in paragraph (1)(b) shall be made
in relation to any accounting period which overlaps the relevant period,
the apportionment being made, unless the Director General having
regard to the circumstances of any particular case otherwise directs, in
the proportion that the number of days of the overlapping period that
fall into the relevant period bears to the total number of days of the
overlapping period.
(3) This section shall not apply if there is any part of the relevant
period for which no accounts of the business have been made up.
Chapter 5—Statutory income
Statutory income
42. (1) Subject to this Act, the statutory income (if any) of a person
from a source for a year of assessment (that year of assessment being
in this section referred to as the relevant year) shall consist of—
(a) the amount of his adjusted income (if any) from that
source for the basis period for the relevant year; and
(b) the amount of—
(i) any balancing charge or the aggregate amount of
the balancing charges;
(ii) any agriculture charge or the aggregate amount of
the agriculture charges; and
(iii) any forest charge or the aggregate amount of the
forest charges,


falling to be made for the relevant year under Schedule 3
in relation to that source,
reduced by the amount of any allowance or the aggregate amount of
the allowances falling to be made for the relevant year under that
Schedule in relation to that source.
(2) Where the basis period for the relevant year overlaps the basis
period for the immediately preceding year of assessment, the amount
of adjusted income for the basis period for the relevant year shall be
taken to be reduced by a sum determined in accordance with the
formula—
A x B
C
where A is the amount of the adjusted income for the basis
period for the relevant year;
B is the length of the period of the overlap; and
C is the length of the basis period for the relevant year.
Chapter 6 - Aggregate income and total income
Aggregate income
*43. (1) Subject to this Act, the aggregate income of a person for a
year of assessment (that person and year of assessment being in this
section referred to as the relevant person and the relevant year
respectively) shall consist of—
(a) the aggregate of his statutory income, if any, for the
relevant year from each of his sources consisting of a
*NOTE —See section 11 of Act 812 for explanations.


Income Tax 117
business, reduced by any deduction falling to be made
for the relevant year pursuant to subsection (2);
(b) the aggregate of his statutory income, if any, for the
relevant year from each of his other sources; and
(c) any additions falling to be made for the relevant year
pursuant to Schedule 4.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (5), there shall be deducted under
paragraph (1)(a) pursuant to this subsection from the aggregate of the
relevant person’s statutory income from each of his sources consisting
of a business for the relevant year the amount ascertained under
subsection 44(4) or (5) for any particular year of assessment preceding
the relevant year or, where that amount exceeds that aggregate, so
much of that amount as is equal to that aggregate:
Provided that, where a deduction has been made or may be made
pursuant to this subsection from the aggregate of the relevant person’s
statutory income from each of his sources consisting of a business for
a year of assessment following the particular year in question or for
more than one year of assessment following that particular year and in
either such case ending prior to the relevant year, then, for the purposes
of the application of this subsection for the relevant year, there shall be
substituted in place of the amount ascertained under subsection 44(4)
or (5) for that particular year so much, if any, of that amount as has not
been deducted for the year of assessment following that particular year
or, as the case may be, for those years of assessment following that
particular year and ending prior to the relevant year.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the reference to the amount
ascertained under subsection 44(4) or (5) for a particular year shall,
whenever necessary, be taken to be a reference to the aggregate of—
(a) that amount for the particular year; and
(b) so much of any such amount for a year of assessment
preceding the particular year as has not been deducted
pursuant to subsection (2) from the aggregate of the


relevant person’s statutory income from each of his
sources consisting of a business for the particular year or
for a year of assessment preceding the particular year.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person who for a year of
assessment has no statutory income from a source of his or no
aggregate statutory income of the kinds referred to in paragraphs (1)(a)
and (b) shall be regarded as having for that year a statutory income of
zero from that source or, as the case may be, an aggregate statutory
income of the kind referred to in paragraph (1)(a) or the kind referred
to in paragraph (1)(b), as the case may be, of zero.
(5) (Deleted by Act 661).
(6) A reference in this section to the aggregate of the relevant
person’s statutory income from each of his sources consisting of a
business or from each of his other sources shall where he has only one
source consisting of a business or only one other source, be construed
as a reference to his statutory income from that one source consisting
of a business or from that one other source, as the case may be.
Total income
44. (1) The total income of a person for a year of assessment (that
person and year of assessment being in this section referred to as the
relevant person and the relevant year respectively) shall consist of the
amount of his aggregate income for the relevant year reduced—
(a) first, by any deduction falling to be made for the relevant
year pursuant to subsection (2);
(b) next, by any deduction falling to be so made pursuant to
Schedule 4 or 4B;
(c) next, by any deduction falling to be so made pursuant to
subsection (6) or (6A);
NOTE —See section 10 of Act 644 and section 11 of Act 812 for explanations.


Income Tax 119
(d) next, by any deduction falling to be so made pursuant to
subsection (8), (9), (10), (11), (11A), (11B), (11C) or
(11D);
(e) next, by any deduction falling to be so made pursuant to
section 44A; and
(f) thereafter, by any deduction falling to be so made
pursuant to section 44B.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (5), there shall be deducted
pursuant to this subsection from the aggregate income of the relevant
person for the relevant year the amount of any adjusted loss from a
source of his for the basis period for the relevant year or, where there
is an adjusted loss from each of two or more sources of his for the
appropriate basis period for each source for the relevant year, the
aggregate of the adjusted loss from each of those sources for its
appropriate basis period for the relevant year.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), where in relation to a source
the basis period for the relevant year overlaps the basis period for the
immediately preceding year of assessment, the amount of the adjusted
loss from that source for the basis period for the relevant year shall be
taken to be reduced by a sum which bears the same proportion to that
amount as the length of the period of the overlap bears to the length of
the basis period for the relevant year and the amount of that loss as so
reduced shall be taken to be the amount of the adjusted loss from that
source for the basis period for the relevant year.
(4) Where the relevant person has no aggregate income for the
relevant year, there shall be ascertained for the purposes of section 43
the amount of any adjusted loss from a source of his for the basis period
for the relevant year or the aggregate of any adjusted loss from each of
his sources for its appropriate basis period for the relevant year, as the
case may be, which would have fallen to have been deducted pursuant
to subsection (2) but for the absence of aggregate income.
(5) Where the amount referred to in subsection (4) exceeds the
relevant person’s aggregate income for the relevant year, so much of


that amount as is equal to that aggregate income shall be deducted
pursuant to subsection (2) and there shall be ascertained for the
purposes of section 43 the amount of that excess.
(5A) The amount ascertained under subsection (4) or (5) for any
relevant year in respect of a company shall be disregarded for the
purposes of section 43 unless the Director General is satisfied that the
shareholders of that company on the last day of the basis period for
that relevant year in which such amount is ascertained were
substantially the same as the shareholders of that company on the first
day of the basis period for the year of assessment in which such amount
would otherwise be deductible under that section and such amount
disregarded shall not be allowed as a deduction in subsequent years of
assessment.
(5B) For the purpose of subsection (5A)—
(a) the shareholders of the company at any date shall be
substantially the same as the shareholders at any other
date if on both those dates—
(i) more than fifty per cent of the paid-up capital in
respect of the ordinary share of the company is
held by or on behalf of the same persons; and
(ii) more than fifty per cent of the value of the alloted
shares in respect of ordinary share in the company
is held by or on behalf of the same persons; and
(b) shares in the company held by or on behalf of another
company shall be deemed to be held by the shareholders
of the last mentioned company.
(5C) In subsection (5B), “ordinary share” means any share other than
a share which carries only a right to any dividend which is of—
(a) a fixed amount or at a fixed rate per cent of the value of
the shares; or


Income Tax 121
(b) a fixed rate per cent of the profits of the company.
(5D) Where there is a substantial change in the shareholders of a
company referred to in subsection (5A), the Minister may under special
circumstances exempt that company from the provisions of that
subsection.
(5E) Where a partnership or a company is converted into a limited
liability partnership in accordance with section 29 or 30 of the
Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2012, the amount ascertained under
subsection 44(4) or (5) for any relevant year in respect of that
partnership or company shall be allowed for the purposes of
ascertaining the aggregate income of that limited liability partnership
for a year of assessment following the relevant year.
(5F) Notwithstanding subsection (4) or (5), the amount ascertained
under either of those subsections for any relevant year shall only be
deductible in accordance with subsection 43(2) for a period of ten
consecutive years of assessment and that period commences
immediately following the relevant year of assessment and any amount
or balance of the amount which is not deductible at the end of that
period shall be disregarded for the purposes of this Act.
(6) Subject to subsection (12), there shall be deducted pursuant to
this subsection from the aggregate income of a person for the relevant
year reduced by any deduction falling to be made for that year in
accordance with subsection (1) an amount equal to any gift of money
made by him in the basis year for that year to the Government, a State
Government, a local authority or an institution or organization or a
fund, approved for the purposes of this section by the Director General
on the application of the institution or organization concerned:
Provided that the amount to be deducted from the aggregate income
for the relevant year in respect of any gift of money made to any
institution, organization or fund approved for the purposes of this
section by the Director General shall not exceed ten per cent of the
aggregate income of that person in the relevant year.


(6A) Subject to subsection (12), there shall be deducted pursuant to
this subsection from the aggregate income of a person for the relevant
year reduced by any deduction falling to be made for that year in
accordance with subsection (1) an amount equal to the value, as
determined by the Department of Museums Malaysia or the National
Archives of any gift of artefact, manuscript or painting made by him
in the basis year for that year to the Government or State Government.
(6B) Where any institution, organization, appropriate religious
authority, body or public university is aggrieved by the decision of the
Director General in respect of an application made under
subsection (6) or (11D), the institution, organization, appropriate
religious authority, body or public university may, within thirty days
after being informed of the decision, appeal to the Minister and the
Minister may make any decision as he considers fit.
(7) In subsection (6)—
“fund” means a fund administered and augmented by an institution
or organization in Malaysia for the sole purpose of carrying out the
objectives for which the fund is established or held and that fund is not
established or held primarily for profit;
“institution” means an institution in Malaysia which is not operated
or conducted primarily for profit and which is—
(a) a hospital;
(b) a public or benevolent institution;
(c) a university or other educational institution;
(d) a public authority or society engaged solely in research
or other work connected with the causes, prevention or
cure of disease in human beings;
(e) a Government-assisted institution engaged in socio-
economic research; or


Income Tax 123
(f) a technical or vocational training institution;
“organization” means an organization in Malaysia which is not
operated or conducted primarily for profit and which is—
(a) an organization established and maintained exclusively
to administer and augment a public or private fund
established or held for the sole purpose of the
establishment, enlargement or improvement of an
institution or solely for the provision of a scholarship,
exhibition or prize for an individual for educational
work, research work or other similar work in an
institution or in what would be an institution if it were in
Malaysia;
(aa) an organization established and maintained exclusively
to administer and augment a public or private fund
established or held for the sole purpose of carrying out
the objective in which the institution is operated or
conducted;
(b) an organization established and maintained exclusively
to administer and augment a public fund established or
held solely for the relief of distress among members of
the public;
(c) an organization established and maintained exclusively
to administer and augment a public fund established and
held solely for the purposes of religious worship or the
advancement of religion and such fund is to be used—
(i) for the construction, improvement, purchase or
maintenance of a building in Malaysia which is—
(A) intended to be used (and, when constructed
or purchased, is used) exclusively for those
purposes; and


(B) intended to be open (and, when constructed
or purchased, is open) to any member of the
public for those purposes; or
(ii) to provide facilities to carry on the activity related
to those purposes; or
(iii) to provide for the management of the activity
related to those purposes;
(d) an organization which maintains or assists in
maintaining a zoo, museum, art gallery or similar
undertaking or is engaged in or in connection with the
promotion of culture or the arts;
(e) an organization engaged in or in connection with the
conservation or protection of animals;
(f) a Government-assisted organization engaged solely in
addressing problems relating to industrial and
commercial development and promoting and enhancing
the relationship between the public sector and the private
sector;
(g) a Government-assisted organization established and
maintained exclusively to administer and augment a
fund established or held solely for promoting national
unity;
(h) an organization established exclusively for the
conservation or protection of the environment;
(i) an international organization as defined under the
International Organization (Privileges and Immunities)
Act 1992 [Act 485] carrying out such charitable
activities as determined by the Minister;
(j) an organization established and maintained exclusively
to administer or augment a fund established or held for


Income Tax 125
the purpose of carrying out projects towards the
acculturation of the community in information and
communication technology, approved by the Minister;
or
(k) a benevolent fund or trust account established or held for
the sole purpose of providing relief or aid to an
individual who has no, or insufficient means, or in the
case of a dependent individual whose parents or
guardian has no, or insufficient means, to pay for the cost
of the medical treatment required by such individual to
treat a serious disease as defined in subsection 46(2).
(7A) An institution or organization referred to in subsection (7)—
(a) may apply not more than twenty-five per cent of its
accumulated funds or that of the fund approved under
subsection (6) as at the beginning of the basis period for
the year of assessment for the carrying on of, or
participation in, a business:
Provided that the profits or income derived therefrom
shall be used solely for charitable purposes or for the
primary purpose for which the institution, organization
or fund was established; or
(b) may carry out charitable activities outside Malaysia with
the prior consent of the Minister.
(7B) The reference to the carrying on of, or participation in, a
business in paragraph (7A)(a) shall not include the carrying on of a
business by an institution or organization where—
(a) the business is carried on in the course of the actual
carrying out of the primary purpose of the institution,
organization or fund; or


(b) the work in connection with the business is mainly
carried on by persons for whose benefit the institution,
organization or fund was established.
(8) Subject to subsection (12), there shall be deducted pursuant to
this subsection from the aggregate income of a person to whom
paragraph 34(6)(g) does not apply, for the relevant year reduced by
any deduction for that year in accordance with subsection (1) an
amount equal to any gift of money made by him in the basis year for
that year, for the provision of library facilities which are accessible to
the public, to public libraries and libraries of schools and institutions
of higher education, not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit.
(9) There shall be deducted pursuant to this subsection from the
aggregate income of a relevant person who is an individual for the
relevant year reduced by any deduction for that year in accordance with
subsection (1) an amount equal to any gift of money or contribution in
kind (the value to be determined by the relevant local authority) made
by him in the basis year for that year for the provision of facilities in
public places for the benefit of disabled persons.
(10) There shall be deducted pursuant to this subsection from the
aggregate income of a relevant person who is an individual for the
relevant year reduced by any deduction for that year in accordance with
subsection (1) an amount equal to any gift of money or the cost or value
(as certified by the Ministry of Health) of any gift of medical
equipment made by him in the basis year for that year to any healthcare
facility approved by that Ministry, and that amount shall not exceed
twenty thousand ringgit.
(11) Subject to subsection (12), there shall be deducted pursuant to
this subsection from the aggregate income of a relevant person for the
relevant year reduced by any deduction for that year in accordance with
subsection (1) an amount equal to the value of any gift of painting (to
be determined by the National Art Gallery or any state art gallery)
made by him in the basis year for that year to the National Art Gallery
or any state art gallery.


Income Tax 127
(11A) There shall be deducted pursuant to this subsection from the
aggregate income of a person other than an offshore company
excluding chargeable offshore company and individual for the relevant
year reduced by any deduction for that year in accordance with
subsection (1) an amount equal to the payment of zakat perniagaan
which is paid in the basis period for that relevant year to an appropriate
religious authority established under any written law or any person
authorized by such religious authority:
Provided that the amount to be deducted pursuant to this subsection
shall not exceed one-fortieth of the aggregate income of that person in
the relevant year.
(11B) There shall be deducted from the aggregate income of a
relevant person for the relevant year reduced by any deduction for that
year in accordance with subsection (1) an amount equal to any gift of
money made by the relevant person in the basis period for that year for
any sports activity approved by the Minister:
Provided that the amount to be deducted pursuant to this subsection
shall not exceed the difference between the amount of ten per cent of
the aggregate income of that person in the relevant year and the total
amount that has been deducted pursuant to the proviso to
subsections (6), (11C) and (11D) for that relevant year.
(11C) There shall be deducted from the aggregate income of a
relevant person for the relevant year reduced by any deduction for that
year in accordance with subsection (1) an amount equal to any gift of
money or cost of contribution in kind made by the relevant person in
the basis period for that year for any project of national interest
approved by the Minister:
Provided that the amount to be deducted pursuant to this subsection
shall not exceed the difference between the amount of ten per cent of
the aggregate income of that person in the relevant year and the total
amount that has been deducted pursuant to the proviso to
subsections (6), (11B) and (11D) for that relevant year.


(11D) There shall be deducted pursuant to this subsection from the
aggregate income of a relevant person for the relevant year reduced by
any deduction falling to be made for that year in accordance with
subsection (1) an amount equal to any gift of money in the form of—
(a) wakaf made by him in the basis period for that year to
any appropriate religious authority established under any
written law, body established by that appropriate
religious authority or public university allowed by that
appropriate religious authority to receive wakaf; or
(b) endowment made by him in the basis period for that year
to a public university:
Provided that—
(a) the wakaf or endowment is made for the purpose of
achieving the objective of establishment of the
appropriate religious authority, body or public
university;
(b) the appropriate religious authority, body or public
university is approved by the Director General for the
purposes of this section on the application of the
appropriate religious authority, body or public university
concerned; and
(c) the amount to be deducted pursuant to this subsection
shall not exceed the difference between the amount of
ten per cent of the aggregate income of that person in the
relevant year and the total amount that has been deducted
pursuant to the proviso to subsections (6), (11B) and
(11C).
(11E) For the purpose of subsection (11D), “public university”
means a higher educational institution having the status of a University
established under the Universities and University Colleges Act 1971
[Act 30] and the Universiti Teknologi MARA established under the
Universiti Teknologi MARA Act 1976 [Act 173].


Income Tax 129
(12) In subsections (6), (6A), (8) and (11), references to basis year
in relation to a company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-
operative society shall be construed as references to the basis period
for the year of assessment of that company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society.
Group relief for companies
*44A. (1) Subject to this section, a company (referred to in this
section as a “surrendering company”) may, for the basis period for
three consecutive years of assessment, surrender not more than seventy
per cent of its adjusted loss in the basis period of a year of assessment
to one or more related companies (referred to in this section as a
“claimant company”):
Provided that the surrendering company and the claimant company
shall be resident in the basis year for that year of assessment and
incorporated in Malaysia.
(1A) For the purpose of subsection (1), the basis period for three
consecutive years of assessment commences―
(a) immediately following the basis period for a year of
assessment the surrendering company first commences
operation, provided that the basis period consists of a
period of twelve months; or
(b) immediately following the second basis period the
surrendering company first commences operation (in
this paragraph referred to as the “second basis period”),
if the basis period for a year of assessment the
surrendering company first commences operation is less
or more than twelve months and the second basis period
consists of a period of twelve months.
*NOTE —See section 13 of Act 812 for explanations.


(2) Subsection (1) shall apply if for any year of assessment—
(a) the surrendering company and the claimant company—
(i) are related companies throughout the basis period
for that year of assessment and the twelve months
period immediately preceding that basis period;
(ii) have paid-up capital in respect of ordinary share of
more than two million five hundred thousand
ringgit at the beginning of the basis period for that
year of assessment;
(iii) have twelve months basis period ending on the
same day;
(iv) make an irrevocable election to surrender or claim
an amount of adjusted loss in the return furnished
for that year of assessment under section 77A; and
(v) are subject to tax at the appropriate rate as
specified in paragraph 2 of Part I of Schedule 1;
and
(b) the claimant company has a defined aggregate income
for that year of assessment.
(3) For the purpose of this section, a surrendering company and
claimant company are related companies if at least—
(a) seventy per cent of the paid-up capital in respect of
ordinary shares of the surrendering company is directly
or indirectly (through the medium of other companies
resident and incorporated in Malaysia) owned by the
claimant company;
(b) seventy per cent of the paid-up capital in respect of
ordinary shares of the claimant company is directly or
indirectly (through the medium of other companies


Income Tax 131
resident and incorporated in Malaysia) owned by the
surrendering company; or
(c) seventy per cent of the paid-up capital in respect of
ordinary shares of the surrendering company and
claimant company are directly or indirectly (through the
medium of other companies resident and incorporated in
Malaysia) owned by another company resident and
incorporated in Malaysia.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), any amount of adjusted loss
surrendered under this section for any year of assessment—
(a) shall be the amount or aggregate amount of the adjusted
loss or the excess of that amount of the surrendering
company for that year of assessment as ascertained
under subsection 44(4) or (5);
(b) shall be allowed to a claimant company as a deduction
in ascertaining the total income of the claimant company
in accordance with subsection 44(1); and
(c) shall not exceed the defined aggregate income of the
claimant company for that year of assessment.
(5) Where the amount of adjusted loss is—
(a) surrendered to more than one claimant company, the
adjusted loss shall be fully deducted in accordance with
subsection (4) to the first claimant company before any
excess of the adjusted loss is surrendered and deducted
in accordance with that subsection to the second
claimant company and so on; or
(b) claimed by a claimant company from more than one
surrendering company, the adjusted loss surrendered
from the first surrendering company shall be deducted in
accordance with subsection (4) to that claimant company
before the adjusted loss is surrendered from the second


surrendering company be deducted in accordance with
that subsection to that claimant company and so on.
(6) For the purpose of subsection (5), the surrendering company and
the claimant company shall ascertain the order of priority in respect of
the adjusted loss surrendered or claimed but if that loss cannot be
effected in accordance with the order of priority specified by any
surrendering company or claimant company the amount of adjusted
loss surrendered or claimed shall be dealt with in such manner as the
Director General thinks reasonable and proper.
(7) Notwithstanding that a company to which subsection (3)
applies, owns at least seventy per cent of the paid-up capital in the
other company, it shall not be treated to have satisfied that subsection
unless additionally in the year of assessment the first-mentioned
company is beneficially entitled to at least seventy per cent of—
(a) any residual profits of the other company, available for
distribution to that other company’s equity holders; and
(b) any residual assets of the other company, available for
distribution to that other company’s equity holders on a
winding up.
(8) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, where—
(a) a claimant company has made an election under
subsection (2), that company shall not in that year
elect to surrender its adjusted loss to any other
claimant company; or
(b) a surrendering company has made an election under
subsection (2), that company shall not in that year elect
to claim any adjusted loss from any other surrendering
company.
(9) Where—


Income Tax 133
(a) in the basis year for a year of assessment the Director
General discovers that the adjusted loss as mentioned in
subsection (4) ought not to have been deducted in
arriving at the total income of the claimant company, the
Director General may in that year or within five years
after its expiration make an assessment or additional
assessment in respect of that company in order to make
good any loss of tax; or
(b) the surrendering company gives an incorrect information
in the return furnished under section 77A in respect of
the amount of adjusted loss surrendered, the Director
General may, by a notice in writing, require the
surrendering company to pay a penalty equal to the
amount of tax which had or would have been
undercharged by the claimant company in consequence
of the incorrect information and where the surrendering
company is dissatisfied with the penalty, the
surrendering company may within thirty days of being
notified appeal to the Special Commissioners as if the
notice were a notice of assessment and the provision of
this Act relating to appeals shall apply accordingly with
any necessary modifications.
(10) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a company for
a basis period for a year of assessment where the period during which
that company—
(a) is a pioneer company or has been granted approval for
investment tax allowance under the Promotion of
Investments Act 1986;
(aa) has unutilized investment tax allowance or adjusted loss
from a pioneer business under the Promotion of
Investments Act 1986;
(b) is exempt from tax on its income under section 54A,
paragraph 127(3)(b) or subsection 127(3A);


(c) has made a claim for a reinvestment allowance under
Schedule 7A;
(d) has made a claim for deduction in respect of an approved
food production project under the Income Tax
(Deduction for Investment in an Approved Food
Production Project) Rules 2006;
(e) has made a claim for deduction under the Income Tax
(Deduction for Cost of Acquisition of Proprietary
Rights) Rules 2002;
(f) has been granted a deduction under the Income Tax
(Deduction for Cost of Acquisition of a Foreign Owned
Company) Rules 2003; or
(g) has made a claim for deduction under any rules made
under section 154 and those rules provide that this
section shall not apply to that company.
(11) For the avoidance of doubt—
(a) the amount of adjusted loss surrendered under this
section shall be disregarded for the purpose of
ascertaining the aggregate income of the surrendering
company under section 43; and
(b) the provisions of this Act shall apply to any adjusted loss
of the surrendering company which is not surrendered
under this section.
(12) In this section—
“commercial loan” means any borrowing which entitles the creditor
to any return which is of only—
(a) a fixed amount or at a fixed rate per cent of the amount
of the borrowing; or


Income Tax 135
(b) of a fixed rate per cent of the profits of the company;
“defined aggregate income”, in relation to a year of assessment,
means the aggregate income of a claimant company for that year
reduced by a deduction made pursuant to paragraphs 44(1)(a), (b), (c)
and (d);
“equity holder” means any holder of ordinary share in the claimant
or surrendering company or any creditor of that company in respect of
any non-commercial loan;
“non-commercial loan” means any borrowing other than a
commercial loan;
“ordinary shares” means any share other than a share which carries
only a right to any dividend which is of—
(a) a fixed amount or at a fixed rate per cent of the value of
the shares; or
(b) a fixed rate per cent of the profits of the company;
“residual assets” means net assets of the claimant surrendering
company after distribution made to—
(a) creditors of that company in respect of commercial loans;
and
(b) holders of shares other than ordinary share,
and where that company has no residual asset, a notional amount of
one hundred ringgit is deemed to be the residual assets of the company;
“residual profits” means profits of the claimant or surrendering
company after deducting any dividend which is of—
(a) a fixed amount or at a fixed rate per cent of the value of
the shares of that company; or


(b) a fixed rate per cent of the profits of that company,
but before deducting any return due to any non-commercial loan
creditor which is not of—
(i) a fixed amount or at a fixed rate per cent of the
amount of the borrowing; or
(ii) a fixed rate per cent of the profits of that
company,
and where that company has no residual profit, a notional amount of
one hundred ringgit is deemed to be the residual profits of that
company.
Carry-back losses
44B. (1) In this section—
“adjusted loss” means the amount or aggregate amount of the
adjusted loss of a person from a source of his or the excess of that
amount for the basis period for a year of assessment as ascertained
under subsection 44(4) or 44(5);
“defined aggregate income”, in relation to a year of assessment,
means the aggregate income of the person for that year reduced by any
deduction made pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of
subsection 44(1);
“immediately preceding”, in relation to a year of assessment,
means—
NOTE—Notwithstanding the provisions of section 46 of the Finance Act 2007 [Act 683], any amount of
tax refunded in respect of any tax discharged for the year of assessment preceding the year of assessment
2009 as a consequence of any deduction allowed in accordance with section 44B of the principal Act, shall
not reduce the 108 balance or revised 108 balance of a company under section 46 of the
Finance Act 2007–see section 4 of Income Tax (Amendment) Act 2009 [Act A1349].


Income Tax 137
(a) for the year of assessment 2009, the year of
assessment 2008; and
(b) for the year of assessment 2010, the year of
assessment 2009
(2) Subject to subsection (6), this section shall apply if—
(a) the basis period of a person for the year of
assessment 2009 or 2010 and the basis period for the
year of assessment immediately preceding the year of
assessment 2009 or 2010 ends on the same day; and
(b) that person is subject to tax at the appropriate rate as
specified in paragraph 1, 1A, 2 or 2A of Part I of Schedule 1.
(3) Subject to this section, where a person has made an irrevocable
election under subsection (4), the amount of the adjusted loss of that
person from a source of his for the basis period for a year of
assessment 2009 or 2010, other than the adjusted loss surrendered by
that person pursuant to section 44A, shall be allowed as a deduction in
ascertaining the total income of that person for a year of assessment
immediately preceding the year of assessment 2009 or 2010, in
accordance with subsection 44(1).
(4) For the purpose of subsection (3), a person shall make an
irrevocable election, either for the year of assessment 2009 or 2010, in
the return furnished for the year of assessment 2009 or 2010 to deduct
an amount of the adjusted loss from a source of his for the basis period
for that year of assessment in ascertaining the total income of that
person for the year of assessment immediately preceding the year of
assessment 2009 or 2010.
(5) The amount of adjusted loss of a person from a source of his for
the basis period for a year of assessment 2009 or 2010 to be deducted
pursuant to subsection (3)—
(a) shall not exceed one hundred thousand ringgit; or


(b) where the amount of the defined aggregate income for
the year of assessment immediately preceding the year
of assessment 2009 or 2010 is less than one hundred
thousand ringgit, shall not exceed the amount of the
defined aggregate income.
(6) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person if
during the basis period for a year of assessment 2009 or 2010 and the
basis period for a year of assessment immediately preceding the year
of assessment 2009 or 2010, that person—
(a) is a pioneer company or has been granted approval for
investment tax allowance under the Promotion of
Investments Act 1986;
(b) is exempt from tax on its income under section 54A,
paragraph 127(3)(b) or subsection 127(3A), or tax paid
or payable by that person for that year of assessment is
remitted under section 129;
(c) has made a claim for a reinvestment allowance under
Schedule 7A;
(d) has made a claim for deduction in respect of an approved
food production project under the Income Tax
(Deduction for Investment in an Approved Food
Production Project) Rules 2006 [P.U. (A) 55/2006];
(e) has made a claim for deduction under the Income Tax
(Deduction for Cost of Acquisition of Proprietary
Rights) Rules 2002 [P.U. (A) 63/2002];
(f) has made a claim for deduction under the Income Tax
(Deduction for Cost of Acquisition of a Foreign Owned
Company) Rules 2003 [P.U. (A) 310/2003];
(g) has made a claim for deduction under any rules made
under section 154, other than the rules specified in
paragraphs (d), (e) and (f), and those rules made under


Income Tax 139
section 154 provide that this section shall not apply to
that person;
(h) is an investment holding company under section 60FA;
(i) carries on insurance business under section 60,
inward reinsurance business under section 60A or
offshore insurance business under section 60B;
(j) carries on takaful business under section 60AA; or
(k) in the case of an individual, has no source consisting of
a business.
(7) Where in the basis year for a year of assessment the Director
General discovers that the adjusted loss referred to in subsection (3)
ought not to have been deducted in arriving at the total income of a
person for the year of assessment immediately preceding the year of
assessment 2009 or 2010, the Director General may in the first-
mentioned year or within six years after its expiration—
(a) make an assessment or additional assessment in respect
of that person in order to make good any loss of tax; and
(b) require that person to pay a penalty equal to the amount of
tax, which had or would have been undercharged by that
person, pursuant to an assessment made under
paragraph (a).
(8) For the avoidance of doubt—
(a) the amount of adjusted loss which has been allowed as a
deduction pursuant to this section shall be disregarded for
the purpose of ascertaining the aggregate income of a
person for a year of assessment immediately following the
year of assessment 2009 or 2010 under subsection 43(2);
and


(b) the provisions of this Act shall apply to the balance of
the adjusted loss (if any) of a person which has not been
allowed as a deduction pursuant to this section.
Chapter 7 - Chargeable Income
Chargeable income and aggregation of husband’s and wife’s
income
45. (1) Subject to this section, the chargeable income of a person for
a year of assessment shall be his total income for that year less any
deductions allowed by this Chapter for that year.
(2) Subject to this section, where an individual and his wife were
living together in the basis year for a year of assessment and did not in
that basis year cease to live together or to be husband and wife of each
other—
(a) the wife may elect in writing (wife who elects) that her
total income shall be aggregated with the total income of
her husband and assessed in his name for that year of
assessment; or
(b) the husband may elect in writing (husband who elects)
that his total income shall be aggregated with the total
income of his wife and assessed in her name for that year
of assessment:
Provided that where the wife who elects or the husband who elects
is not resident for the basis year for a year of assessment, such wife or
husband, as the case may be, may elect under this subsection only if
she or he is a citizen.
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b)—
(a) for any year of assessment, that paragraph shall only
apply if there is no election made by a wife or wives
under paragraph (2)(a) for that year of assessment; and


Income Tax 141
(b) the election shall only be made with one wife.
(4) Where under subsection (2) the total income of the wife who
elects falls to be aggregated with that of her husband or the total
income of the husband who elects falls to be aggregated with that of
his wife, for a year of assessment, the wife who elects or the husband
who elects, as the case may be, shall be treated as having no chargeable
income for that year.
(5) The election referred to in subsection (2) shall be made in a
return furnished in accordance with subsection 77(1).
Deduction for husband
45A. (1) Where—
(a) the husband has no source of income;
(b) the husband has no total income which can be
aggregated with that of his wife; or
(c) an election has been made by the husband under
paragraph 45(2)(b),
there shall be allowed to the wife, for a year of assessment, in addition
to the allowances or deduction (if any) to that wife under
sections 46, 48 and 49, a deduction of four thousand ringgit for the
husband and a further five thousand ringgit if he is a disabled person:
Provided that this section shall only apply to one wife.
(2) This section shall not apply where, in relation to
paragraph (1)(b), the husband, other than a husband who is a disabled
person, has an income which is derived from sources outside Malaysia
and his gross income from those sources for a year of assessment is
more than the amount of deduction allowed for a husband.


Deduction for individual and Hindu joint family
46. (1) In the case of an individual or a Hindu joint family resident
for the basis year for a year of assessment, there shall be allowed for
that year of assessment personal deductions of—
(a) nine thousand ringgit for that individual in respect of
himself and his dependent relatives (if any), or for that
Hindu joint family;
(b) (Deleted by Act 600);
(c) an amount limited to a maximum of eight thousand
ringgit in respect of medical treatment, special needs or
carer expenses expended in that basis year by that
individual for his parents and the claim is evidenced by
certification of a medical practitioner that the medical
conditions of the parents require medical treatment or
special needs or carer and—
(i) in the case of medical treatment or special needs,
a receipt on the amount expended; or
(ii) in the case of carer, a written certification or
receipt from, or work permit of, the carer:
Provided that for the purpose of this paragraph—
(a) “carer” shall not include that individual, his
wife or her husband or the child of the
individual;
(b) “parents” shall be individuals resident in
Malaysia;
(c) the medical treatment and care services are
provided in Malaysia; and


Income Tax 143
(d) the medical practitioner is registered with
the Malaysian Medical Council.
(d) an amount limited to a maximum of six thousand ringgit
expended or deemed expended under subsection (3) in
that basis year by that individual for the purchase of any
necessary basic supporting equipment for his own use, if
he is a disabled person or for the use of his wife, child or
parent, who is a disabled person, or in the case of a wife,
for her own use, if she is a disable person, or for the use
of her husband, child or parent, who is a disabled person;
(e) a further six thousand ringgit for that individual if he is
a disabled person;
(f) fees expended in that basis year by that individual on
himself for—
(i) any course of study up to tertiary level, other than
a Masters or Doctorate degree, undertaken for the
purpose of acquiring legal, accounting, Islamic
financing, technical, vocational, industrial,
scientific or technological qualification or skill, in
any institution or professional body in Malaysia
recognized by the Government or approved by the
Minister;
(ii) any course of study for a Masters or Doctorate
degree undertaken for the purpose of acquiring
any qualification or skill, in any institution or
professional body in Malaysia recognized by the
Government or approved by the Minister; or
(iii) any course of study undertaken for the purpose of
upskilling or self-enhancement and that course is
conducted by a body recognized by the Director
General of Skills Development under the National
Skills Development Act 2006 [Act 652], for years
of assessment 2022 and 2023, limited to a


maximum amount of two thousand ringgit for each
year of assessment,
and the total deduction under this paragraph shall be
subject to a maximum amount of seven thousand
ringgit;
(g) medical expenses expended or deemed expended under
subsection (3) in that basis year by that individual—
(i) on himself if he is undergoing treatment for a
serious disease or on his wife or child who is
undergoing treatment for a serious disease, or in
the case of a wife, on herself if she is undergoing
treatment for a serious disease or on her husband
or child who is undergoing treatment for a serious
disease;
(ii) on himself if he is undergoing fertility treatment or
on his wife who is undergoing fertility treatment,
or in the case of a wife, on herself if she is
undergoing fertility treatment or on her husband
who is undergoing fertility treatment; or
(iii) on himself, his wife or child for vaccination, or in
the case of a wife, on herself, her husband or child
for vaccination an amount limited to a maximum
of one thousand ringgit:
Provided that—
(a) the claim is evidenced by a receipt and certification
issued by a medical practitioner registered with the
Malaysian Medical Council that the serious disease
treatment was provided to that individual, spouse or
child, or that fertility treatment was provided to that
individual or the spouse;


Income Tax 145
(b) the total amount of deduction under this paragraph is
subject to a maximum amount of *ten thousand ringgit;
and
(c) for the purpose of subparagraph (ii)—
(A) the individual is married; and
(B) “fertility treatment” means intrauterine
insemination or in vitro fertilization treatment or
any other fertility treatment; and
(d) for the purposes of subparagraph (iii), the vaccinations
which qualify for deduction are for:
(i) pneumococcal;
(ii) human papillomavirus (HPV);
(iii) influenza;
(iv) rotavirus;
(v) varicella;
(vi) meningococcal;
(vii) TDAP combination (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular-
pertussis); and
(viii) Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19);
(h) an amount limited to a maximum of one thousand ringgit
expended or deemed expended under subsection (3) in
that basis year by that individual on himself or on his
wife or on his child, or in the case of a wife, on herself
or on her husband or on her child, in respect of—
*NOTE—Previously “eight thousand ringgit”–see subparagraph 4(a)(i) of the Finance Act 2023 [Act 845]


(i) complete medical examination expenses as
evidenced by receipts issued by a hospital or a
medical practitioner registered with the Malaysian
Medical Council;
(ii) Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) detection
test, as evidenced by receipts issued by a hospital
or a medical practitioner registered with the
Malaysian Medical Council or receipts of the
purchase of Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID-19) self-detection test kit; or
(iii) mental health examination or consultation as
evidenced by receipts issued by a hospital, a
psychiatrist within the meaning of section 2 of the
Mental Health Act 2001 [Act 615], a clinical
psychologist registered with the Malaysian Allied
Health Professions Council under the Allied
Health Professions Act 2016 [Act 774] or a
counsellor registered with the Board of
Counsellors under the Counsellors Act 1998
[Act 580]:
Provided that the deduction under this paragraph
shall be part of the amount limited to a maximum of
*ten thousand ringgit in paragraph (g);
(ha) an amount limited to a maximum of four thousand
ringgit expended or deemed expended under
subsection (3) in that basis year by that individual on
his child who at any time in that basis year is of the age
of eighteen years and below, in respect of—
(i) assessment for the purpose of diagnosis of
learning disability certified by a medical
practitioner registered with the Malaysian Medical
Council; or
*NOTE—Previously “eight thousand ringgit”–see subparagraph 4(a)(ii) of the Finance Act 2023 [Act 845]


Income Tax 147
(ii) early intervention programme or rehabilitation
treatment for learning disability conducted by an
allied health practitioner in the field of learning
disability registered under the Allied Health
Professions Act 2016:
Provided that—
(a) the claim is evidenced by a receipt and
certification issued by the medical
practitioner that the assessment for the
purpose of diagnosis was provided to the
child and that the child is diagnosed with
learning disability;
(b) the claim is evidenced by a receipt and
certification issued by the allied health
practitioner that the early intervention
programme or rehabilitation treatment was
provided to the child;
(c) the assessment for the purpose of diagnosis,
early intervention programme or
rehabilitation treatment which qualifies for
deduction is for the following learning
disabilities:
(i) autism spectrum disorder;
(ii) attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder;
(iii) global developmental delay;
(iv) intellectual disability;
(v) down syndrome; and
(vi) specific learning disability;


(d) the assessment for the purpose of diagnosis,
early intervention programme and
rehabilitation treatment are provided in
Malaysia;
(e) the maximum amount of deduction under
this paragraph shall apply notwithstanding
that that individual may have more than one
child; and
(f) the deduction under this paragraph shall be
part of the amount limited to a maximum of
ten thousand ringgit in paragraph (g);
(i) (Deleted by Act 785);
(j) (Deleted by Act 785);
(k) an amount limited to a maximum of eight thousand
ringgit deposited in that basis year by that individual for
his child into the Skim Simpanan Pendidikan Nasional
account established under the Perbadanan Tabung
Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional Act 1997 [Act 566]:
Provided that if any withdrawal is made from the
account by that individual in that basis year, the amount
deposited during that year shall be reduced by that
withdrawal and regard shall be had only to the reduced
amount subject to a maximum amount of eight thousand
ringgit;
(l) (Deleted by Act 785);
(m) (Deleted by Act 785);
(n) an amount limited to a maximum of three hundred and
fifty ringgit in respect of a contribution made or suffered
in that basis year by that individual to the Social Security
Organization pursuant to the Employees’ Social Security


Income Tax 149
Act 1969 or Employment Insurance System Act 2017
[Act 800];
*(o) an amount of one thousand five hundred ringgit for each
of the parent of that individual—
(i) who is a resident and, at any time in that basis year,
aged sixty years and above; and
(ii) whose annual income does not exceed twenty-four
thousand ringgit for that year of assessment:
Provided that—
(a) the deduction under this paragraph shall be
allowed for a maximum of two parents;
(b) the deduction under this paragraph shall not
be allowed for an individual who has made
a claim under paragraph 46(1)(c) for the
same basis year; and
(c) where two or more individuals are each
entitled to claim a deduction for a year of
assessment under this paragraph in respect
of the same parent, there shall be allowed to
each of those individuals, in place of the
whole deduction which would otherwise be
allowed under this paragraph, an amount of
the whole deduction equally apportioned
according to the number of the individuals
making the claim;
(p) an amount expended or deemed expended under
subsection (3) in that basis year by that individual—
*NOTE —This provision has effect for the year of assessment 2016 until the year of assessment 2020–
see section 3 and paragraph 12(d) of the Finance Act 2015 [Act 773].


(i) for the purchase or subscription of books, journals,
magazines, newspapers and other similar
publications for the purpose of enhancing
knowledge for his own use or for the use of his
wife or child, or in the case of a wife, for her own
use or for the use of her husband or child;
(ii) for the purchase of a personal computer,
smartphone or tablet (not being used for the
purpose of his own business) for his own use or for
the use of his wife or child, or in the case of a wife,
for her own use or for the use of her husband or
child;
(iii) for the purchase of sports equipment for any sports
activity as defined under the Sports Development
Act 1997 (excluding motorized two-wheel
bicycles) and gym memberships for his own use or
for the use of his wife or child, or in the case of a
wife, for her own use or for the use of her husband
or child; and
(iv) for the payment of monthly bill for internet
subscription under that individual’s name for his
own use or for the use of his wife or child, or in
the case of a wife, for her own use or for the use of
her husband or child,
as evidenced by receipts issued in respect of the
purchase or payment, as the case may be, and the total
deduction under this paragraph is subject to a maximum
amount of two thousand five hundred ringgit;
(q) an amount limited to a maximum of one thousand ringgit
expended in that basis year for that year of assessment
by that individual for the purchase of breastfeeding
equipment for that individual’s own use for a child of
that individual aged two years old and below, as
evidenced by receipts issued in respect of the purchase:


Income Tax 151
Provided that—
(a) for the purpose of this paragraph, breastfeeding
equipment refers to a breast pump kit and an ice
pack, a breast milk collection and storage
equipment, and a cooler set or bag;
(b) the deduction under this paragraph shall not be
allowed for a year of assessment immediately
following that year of assessment; and
(c) the maximum amount of deduction under this
paragraph shall apply notwithstanding that that
individual may have more than one child;
(r) an amount limited to a maximum of two thousand ringgit
expended or deemed expended under subsection (3) in
respect of the payment of child care fees to a child care
centre registered with the Director General of Social
Welfare under the Child Care Centre Act 1984 [Act 308]
or a kindergarten registered under the Education Act
1996 [Act 550] in that basis year by that individual for a
child of that individual aged six years and below as
evidenced by receipts issued by such child care centre or
kindergarten:
Provided that—
(a) where a wife living together with her husband is
assessed separately for that year, the deduction
under this paragraph shall only be allowed either
to the husband or to the wife;
(b) the maximum amount of deduction under this
paragraph shall apply notwithstanding that that
individual may have more than one child; and
(c) a further one thousand ringgit shall be allowed for
the years of assessment 2020 until 2024;


(s) an amount limited to a maximum of one thousand ringgit
expended or deemed expended under subsection (3) in
that basis year by that individual as evidenced by
receipts on the amount expended—
(i) for the payment of accommodation at the premises
registered with the Commissioner of Tourism
under the Tourism Industry Act 1992 [Act 482];
(ii) for the payment of entrance fee to a tourist
attraction; or
(iii) for the purchase of domestic tour package through
a licensed travel agent registered with the
Commissioner of Tourism under the Tourism
Industry Act 1992:
Provided that—
(a) for the purposes of subparagraphs (i) and
(ii), the payment is made on or after 1 March
2020 but not later than 31 December 2022;
and
(b) for the purposes of subparagraph (iii), the
purchase is made on or after 1 January 2021
but not later than 31 December 2022;
(t) an amount limited to a maximum of two thousand and
five hundred ringgit expended or deemed expended
under subsection (3) in that basis year by that individual
for the purchase of a personal computer, smartphone or
tablet (not being used for the purposes of his own
business) for his own use or for the use of his wife or
child, or in the case of a wife, for her own use or for the
use of her husband or child as evidenced by receipts
issued in respect of the purchase and the deduction under
this paragraph shall be additional to any deduction under
paragraph (p):


Income Tax 153
Provided that—
(a) the purchase is made on or after 1 June 2020 but
not later than 31 December 2022; and
(b) the total amount of deduction under this paragraph
shall exclude the amount deducted under
paragraph (p);
(u) an amount limited to a maximum of five hundred ringgit
expended or deemed expended under subsection (3) in
that basis year by that individual—
(i) for the purchase of sports equipment for any sports
activity as defined under the Sports Development
Act 1997 [Act 576] (excluding motorized
two-wheel bicycles);
(ii) for the payment of rental or entrance fee to any
sports facility; and
(iii) for the payment of registration fee for any sports
competition where the organizer is approved and
licensed by the Commissioner of Sports under the
Sports Development Act 1997,
for his own use or under his name or for the use of or
under the name of his wife or child, or in the case of a
wife, for her own use or under her name or for the use of
or under the name of her husband or child as evidenced
by receipts issued in respect of the purchase or payment,
as the case may be, and the deduction under this
paragraph shall be additional to any deduction under
paragraph (p):
Provided that the total amount of deduction under this
paragraph shall exclude the amount deducted under
paragraph (p); and


(v) an amount limited to a maximum of two thousand and
five hundred ringgit expended for each basis year for the
years of assessment 2022 and 2023 by that individual
for the payment of installation, rental, purchase
including hire-purchase of equipment or subscription
for use of electric vehicle charging facility for his own
vehicle and not being used for the purposes of his own
business as evidenced by receipts issued in respect of the
payment on the amount expended.
(2) In this section—
“child” shall be construed as referring to a child as defined in
subsection 48(9);
(3) For the purposes of paragraphs (1)(d), (g), (h), (ha), (k), (p), (r),
(s), (t) and (u) any amount expended by the wife or the husband in the
year of assessment—
(a) where subsection 45(2) applies, shall be deemed to have
been expended by the husband of the wife who elects or
by the wife of the husband who elects, as the case may
be; or
(b) where the wife or the husband has no total income, shall
be deemed to have been expended by the husband of that
wife who has no total income or the wife of that husband
who has no total income, as the case may be:
Provided that where paragraph 45(2)(b) applies or the husband has
no total income, any amount expended by the husband shall be deemed
to have been expended by the wife who has been allowed a deduction
under section 45A.
46A. (Deleted by Act 683).


Income Tax 155
Deduction for individual on interest expended
46B. (1) Subject to this section, in the case of an individual who is a
citizen and resident for the basis year for the relevant year, there shall
be allowed for that relevant year personal deduction in respect of
interest expended in that basis year by the individual to finance the
purchase of a residential property:
Provided that—
(a) the purchase of the residential property is limited to only
one unit;
(b) the Sale and Purchase Agreement for the purchase has
been executed on or after 10 March 2009 but not later
than 31 December 2010; and
(c) the individual has not derived any income in respect of
that residential property.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), there shall be allowed to that
individual a deduction for a maximum amount of ten thousand ringgit
for each basis year for a year of assessment for a period of three
consecutive basis years beginning from the basis year in which the
interest referred to in subsection (1) is first expended by that
individual.
(3) Where—
(a) two or more individuals are each entitled to claim
deduction for the relevant year under this section for
interest expended in respect of the same residential
property; and
(b) the total amount of interest expended by those
individuals in the basis year for that relevant year exceed
the amount of deduction allowable for that relevant year
under subsection (2),


there shall be allowed to each of those individuals for that relevant year
an amount to be determined in accordance with the following formula:
A x B
C
where A is the total amount of deduction allowed under
subsection (2) for that relevant year;
B is the total interest expended in the basis year for that
relevant year by that individual; and
C is the total interest expended in the basis year for that
relevant year by all such individuals.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), any amount expended by the
wife or the husband in the relevant year—
(a) where subsection 45(2) applies, shall be deemed to have
been expended by the husband of the wife who elects or
by the wife of the husband who elects, as the case may
be; or
(b) where the wife or the husband has no total income, shall
be deemed to have been expended by the husband of that
wife or the wife of that husband, as the case may be:
Provided that where paragraph 45(2)(b) applies or where the husband
has no total income, any amount expended by the husband shall be
deemed to have been expended by the wife who has been allowed a
deduction under section 45A.
(5) For the purposes of this section, “residential property” means a
house, condominium unit, apartment or flat which is built as a dwelling
house.


Income Tax 157
Deduction for wife or former wife
47. (1) In the case of an individual resident for the basis year for a
year of assessment who in that basis year had a wife living together
with him, there shall, subject to subsections (3) and (4), be allowed for
that year of assessment a deduction of—
(a) four thousand ringgit for the wife; and
(b) a further five thousand ringgit for the wife if she is a
disabled person.
(2) In the case of an individual resident for the basis year for a year
of assessment who in that basis year—
(a) made payments to a wife of his by way or in the nature
of alimony pendente lite;
(b) made payments by way of alimony or maintenance (in
pursuance of an order of a court or otherwise) to a former
wife whose marriage with him was dissolved or annulled
(by a court or otherwise) in accordance with any law or
customs applicable to him; or
(c) made payments in pursuance of an order of a court, a
deed or a written agreement to a wife from whom he was
separated by an order of a court, a deed of separation or
a written agreement for separation,
then, subject to subsection (3), there shall be allowed for that
year of assessment a deduction of the aggregate amount of
those payments.
(3) The total of the deductions allowed for a year of assessment to
an individual under paragraph (1)(a) and subsection (2) shall not
exceed four thousand ringgit.


(4) Where an individual’s wife is assessed separately in her name
for any year of assessment on her income no allowance or deduction
shall be made to him in respect of that wife under subsection (1).
(5) Notwithstanding subsection 45(2) but subject to subsection (4),
where an individual’s wife has no total income which can be
aggregated with that of her husband for a year of assessment, an
allowance or deduction shall be made to him in respect of that wife
under subsection (1).
(6) Subsection (5) shall not apply if the wife, other than a wife who
is a disabled person, has an income which is derived from sources
outside Malaysia and her gross income from those sources for a year
of assessment is more than the amount of deduction allowed for a wife.
Deduction for children
48. (1) Subject to this section, where an individual who is resident
for the basis year for a year of assessment—
(a) pays (wholly or in part) in that basis year for the
maintenance at any time in that basis year of an
unmarried child who at any time in that basis year is
under the age of eighteen years;
(b) pays (wholly or in part) in that basis year—
(i) for the maintenance at any time in that basis year
of an unmarried child who at any time in that basis
year is receiving full-time instruction at any
university, college, school or other similar
educational establishment; or
(ii) for that instruction;
(c) pays (wholly or in part) in that basis year for the
maintenance at any time in that basis year of an
unmarried child (in subparagraphs (i) to (ii) referred to


Income Tax 159
as the child) who at any time in that basis year is serving
under articles or indentures with a view to qualifying in
a trade or profession or—
(i) pays (wholly or in part) in that basis year for any
part-time education which is received by the child
at any time in that basis year and relates to that
trade or profession;
(ii) pays (wholly or in part) in that basis year on behalf
of the child any premium payable under or in
connection with those articles or indentures; or
(iii) makes in that basis year on behalf of the child any
other payment payable under or in connection with
those articles or indentures; or
(d) pays (wholly or in part) in that basis year for the
maintenance at any time in that basis year of an
unmarried child if it is proved to the satisfaction of the
Director General that the child is physically or mentally
disabled,
there shall be allowed for that year of assessment in respect of that
child the appropriate deduction, if any, specified in subsection (2):
Provided that where a wife living together with her husband is
assessed separately for any year of assessment on her income, she may
elect in writing that the appropriate deduction be wholly allowed to her
for that year of assessment.
(2) The appropriate deduction referred to in subsection (1) is—
(a) in respect of children falling under paragraphs (1)(a) to
(c), two thousand ringgit for each child;
(b) in respect of children falling under paragraph (1)(d), six
thousand ringgit for each child.


(3) (a) Where for a year of assessment any individual is entitled
under paragraph (1)(b), (c) or (d) to a deduction specified
under paragraph (2)(a) or (b), as the case may be, in respect
of a child over the age of eighteen years and the child is
receiving full-time instruction at a university, college or
other establishment (similar to a university or college) of
higher education, or is serving under articles or indentures
with a view to qualifying in a trade or profession, then there
shall be allowed—
(i) in the case where that individual is entitled
under paragraph (1)(b) or (c) to a deduction, in
substitution for deduction specified under
paragraph (2)(a), a deduction of four times of
the amount of deduction specified under that
paragraph (2)(a); or
(ii) in the case where that individual is entitled under
paragraph (1)(d) to a deduction, in addition to a
deduction specified under paragraph (2)(b), a
further deduction of eight thousand ringgit:
Provided that in the case of a child who is receiving full-
time instruction outside Malaysia, it shall be in respect of
an award of degree (including a degree at Master or
Doctorate level) or the equivalent of a degree.
(b) for the purpose of paragraph (a), the instruction and
educational establishment referred to in that paragraph
shall be approved by the relevant government authority.
(4) Where two or more individuals are each entitled to claim a
deduction for a year of assessment under this section for a payment
made in respect of the same child, there shall be allowed to each of
those individuals, in place of the whole deduction which would
otherwise be allowed under this section, a reduced deduction of fifty
per cent of that whole deduction.


Income Tax 161
(5) A deduction shall not be allowed to an individual under this
section for a year of assessment in respect of any child whose total
income, wherever derived or accruing, for that year exceeds the
amount of the deduction that would otherwise be allowed under this
section to that individual in respect of that child.
(6) (Deleted by Act 644).
(7) (Deleted by Act 531).
(8) (Deleted by Act A226).
(9) In this section “child”, in relation to an individual or his wife,
means a legitimate child or step-child of his or his wife, or a child
proved to the satisfaction of the Director General to have been adopted
by the individual or his wife in accordance with any law.
Deduction for insurance premiums
49. (1) Subject to this section, in the case of an individual resident
for the basis year for a year of assessment, there shall be allowed for
that year of assessment a deduction―
(a) not exceeding three thousand ringgit, in respect of
premium paid by that individual for any insurance or any
voluntary contribution made by that individual to the
Employees Provident Fund or for both;
(b) not exceeding four thousand ringgit, in respect of any
voluntary or obligatory contribution to approved scheme
(other than a private retirement scheme) made or
suffered by that individual who is an employee or a self-
employed person within the meaning of the
Employees Provident Fund Act 1991 [Act 452], or a
pensionable officer within the meaning of section 2 of
the Pensions Act 1980; or


(c) not exceeding four thousand ringgit, in respect of any
amount made or suffered by that individual on any
contribution under any written law relating to widow,
widower and orphan’s pension or under any approved
scheme within the meaning of any such law.
(1A) For the purpose of subsection (1)―
(a) the total amount of deduction under subsection (1) shall
not exceed seven thousand ringgit;
(aa) the total amount of deduction for voluntary contribution
to the Employees Provident Fund under paragraph (1)(a)
shall not include the amount of deduction for voluntary
contribution to the Employees Provident Fund under
paragraph (1)(b) made by an individual who is an
employee or a self-employed person within the meaning
of the Employees Provident Fund Act 1991, or a
pensionable officer within the meaning of section 2 of the
Pensions Act 1980;
(b) where subsection 50(2) or 50(3) applies, the amount of
deduction to be allowed shall be in accordance with
paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c) and the total deduction
under subsection 50(2) or (3) shall not exceed seven
thousand ringgit.
(c) (Deleted by Act 845).
(1B) (a) Subject to this section, in the case of an individual
resident for the basis year for a year of assessment who
has paid any premium for insurance on education or for
medical benefits, there shall be allowed for that year of
assessment in addition to the deduction allowed under
subsection (1), a deduction of the aggregate amount of
the payments or a deduction of three thousand ringgit,
whichever is the less;


Income Tax 163
(b) for the purposes of paragraph (a), where subsection
50(2) applies, the total deduction under the paragraph
shall not exceed three thousand ringgit.
(1C) (Deleted by Act 719).
(1D) In the case of an individual resident for the basis year for a year
of assessment who has—
(a) paid premium for deferred annuity; or
(b) made or suffered the making of a contribution to a
private retirement scheme,
there shall be allowed for that year of assessment a deduction of the
aggregate amount of the payments or contribution or both or a
deduction of three thousand ringgit whichever is the less.
(1E) For the purposes of subsection (1D), where subsection 50(2)
or (3) applies, the total deduction under that subsection shall not
exceed three thousand ringgit.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), other than voluntary
contributions to the Employees Provident Fund made by any
individual, no regard shall be had to any contribution to an approved
scheme unless the contribution was obligatory by reason of—
(a) any contract of employment of the individual claiming a
deduction in respect of the contribution; or
(b) any provision in the rules, regulations, by-laws or
constitution of the scheme,
and, where the contribution was partly obligatory by reason of such a
contract or provision and partly not so obligatory, regard shall be had
only to the part which was so obligatory.


(3) In relation to an individual claiming a deduction under
subsection (1) and (1D), “insurance” and “deferred annuity”, mean an
insurance or deferred annuity contracted for by the individual—
(a) on the individual’s life;
(b) on the life of a wife of the individual or, where the
individual is a female, on the life of the individual’s
husband; or
(c) on the joint lives of the individual and a wife or wives of
his or on the joint lives of two or more wives of his or,
where the individual is a female, on the joint lives of—
(i) the individual and her husband;
(ii) the individual, her husband and any other wife or
wives of his;
(iii) the individual and any other wife or wives of her
husband; or
(iv) her husband and any other wife or wives of his,
being an insurance or deferred annuity contracted for with an insurance
company for securing on death either a capital sum or a deferred annuity
or both (whether in conjunction with any other benefit or not) or an
insurance or deferred annuity contracted for with a government, a public
body or the controlling authority of any nationalized insurance business.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1B) reference to an insurance
means an insurance contracted for by an individual for himself, his
wife or child, or in the case of a wife, for herself, her husband or child.


Income Tax 165
Application of section 49 where husband and wife are living
together
50. (1) Where an individual who is resident for the basis year for a
year of assessment has a wife living together with him at any time in
that basis year, and they did not in that basis year—
(a) cease to live together; or
(b) cease to be husband and wife of each other,
the application of section 49 to that individual shall be subject to this
section.
(2) Any premium for any insurance or deferred annuity within the
meaning of subsection 49(3), or for any insurance on education or
medical benefits within the meaning of subsection 49(4), which has
been paid by the wife or the husband in the year of assessment—
(a) where subsection 45(2) applies, shall be deemed to have
been paid by the husband of the wife who elects or by
the wife of the husband who elects, as the case may be;
or
(b) where the wife or the husband has no total income, shall
be deemed to have been paid by the husband of that wife
who has no total income or the wife of that husband who
has no total income, as the case may be:
Provided that where paragraph 45(2)(b) applies, or the husband has
no total income, any amount paid by the husband shall be deemed to
have been paid by the wife who has been allowed a deduction under
section 45A.
(3) Where subsection 45(2) applies for the year of assessment, and
in that year the wife who elects or the husband who elects has made or
suffered the making of a contribution as an employee to an approved
scheme or as a self-employed person within the meaning of the
Employees Provident Fund Act 1991, or as a pensionable officer


within the meaning of section 2 of the Pensions Act 1980 to the
Employees Provident Fund—
(a) the contribution shall be deemed to have been made by
the husband or the wife in whose name the assessment
was made, as the case may be, in that year; and
(b) the reference to a contract of employment in
paragraph 49(2)(a) shall be deemed to include a
reference to a contract of employment of the wife who
elects or the husband who elects, as the case may be.
(4) (Deleted by Act 451).
Deduction must be claimed
51. Notwithstanding sections 47 to 50, no deduction shall be allowed
under those sections in ascertaining the chargeable income of an
individual for a year of assessment unless a claim has been made for
that year for the deduction or for a deduction of a larger or smaller
amount in respect of the same subject matter.
Chapter 8 - Special cases
Modification of Part III in certain special cases
52. In a case where any provision of this Chapter applies, the
foregoing Chapters shall also apply but shall be modified in their
application to the extent necessary to conform with that provision; and,
if in that case there is any inconsistency between that provision and
any provision of the foregoing Chapters, that provision of those
Chapters shall be void to the extent of the inconsistency.


Income Tax 167
Trade associations
53. (1) Where a trade association is resident for the basis year for a
year of assessment—
(a) the total of the sums (other than sums forming part of
any gross income of the association from any source
other than the source created by this subsection)
receivable on revenue account by the association for that
basis year (including entrance fees and subscriptions)
shall be deemed to be gross income for that basis year
from a business of the association deemed to be carried
on by the association; and
(b) that basis year shall be deemed to be the basis period for
that year of assessment for that business.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
(a) the gross income, adjusted income or adjusted loss and
statutory income of a trade association relating to its
transactions with its members shall be ascertained on the
same principles as those on which its gross income,
adjusted income or adjusted loss and statutory income
relating to its transactions with non-members, if any,
would be ascertained; and
(b) any outgoings or expenses connected with the a sums
receivable on revenue account referred to in subsection
(1) shall be deemed to have been incurred in the
production of its gross income relating to its transactions
with its members if they would have been so incurred if
the sums deemed by that subsection to be gross income
had in fact been gross income of the association.
(3) In this section, “trade association” means any association of
persons, of partnerships or of persons and partnerships formed with the
main object of—


(a) safeguarding or promoting the business of its members;
or
(b) developing and advancing the profession of its members.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, a trade
association shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be a
body of persons and not a partnership.
Club, association or similar institution
53A. (1) This section shall apply to a body of persons which carry on
a club, association or similar institution other than a trade association
to which section 53 applies.
(2) Any income of the body of persons from transaction with
members and any outgoing or expenses or capital allowances
attributable to such income shall be disregarded for the purpose of this
Act.
(3) The gross income of a body of persons for the basis period for
the year of assessment shall include the amount of gross income for
that period from the investment made out of any of the fund of the body
of persons.
(4) The body of persons shall maintain a separate account in respect
of income derived from its members and non-members.
(5) Where the amount of outgoing or expenses to be allowed or
capital allowances to be made to the body of persons are common to
income from transaction with members and non-members, the amount
of outgoing or expenses that shall be allowed or capital allowances that
shall be made to that body of persons in respect of income relating to
transaction with non-members shall be an amount as determined by
applying the method as may be prescribed under this Act.


Income Tax 169
(6) In this section, “members”, in relation to a body of persons,
means those persons who are entitled to vote at a general meeting of
the body at which effective control is exercised over its affairs.
Sea and air transport undertakings
54. (1) Where the business of a person consists partly of transporting
passengers or cargo by sea or air and partly of other activities—
(a) the transport activities of that kind shall be deemed to
constitute one business and source of that person and the
other activities shall be deemed to constitute a separate
and distinct business and source of that person; and
(b) the gross income and adjusted income or adjusted loss
for the basis period for a year of assessment from the
business consisting of those other activities, and the
statutory income for that year of assessment from the
business so consisting shall be ascertained in accordance
with the provisions of the foregoing Chapters without
modification by this section.
(2) (a) Subject to section 54A, where that person is resident for the
basis year for a year of assessment, his gross income and adjusted
income or adjusted loss for the basis period for that year of assessment
from the business of transporting passengers or cargo by sea or air his
statutory income for that year of assessment from that business shall
be ascertained by reference to his income therefrom wherever accruing
or derived;
(b) Where that person is not resident for the basis year for a year
of assessment, his gross income derived from Malaysia from the
business of transporting passengers or cargo by sea or air for the basis
period for that year of assessment and his statutory income from that
business for that year of assessment shall be ascertained in accordance
with the following subsections (that business, person, basis period and
year of assessment being referred to in those subsections as the


business, the operator, the relevant period and the relevant year
respectively).
(3) Subject to subsection (4), the statutory income of the operator
from the business for the relevant year shall be deemed to be five per
cent of the gross income derived from Malaysia for the relevant period.
(4) Where within three years (or such further period as the Director
General may allow) after the commencement of the relevant year the
operator produces a certificate which is an acceptable certificate,
then—
(a) if there is world income, the operator’s statutory income
from the business for the relevant year shall be deemed
to be a sum bearing the same proportion to the world
income as the gross income derived from Malaysia for
the relevant period bears to the gross income shown by
the certificate, less the amount of any loss from the
business computed in accordance with paragraph (b) for
a year of assessment preceding the relevant year (to the
extent that the loss has not been allowed as a deduction
in computing the statutory income from the business for
any year of assessment following that preceding year of
assessment and ending prior to the relevant year);
(b) if there is a world loss, the operator’s net statutory loss
from the business for the relevant year shall be deemed
to be a sum bearing the same proportion to the world loss
as the gross income derived from Malaysia for the
relevant period bears to the gross income shown by the
certificate;
(c) if by the time the certificate becomes an acceptable
certificate no assessment for the relevant year has been
made on the operator by reference to subsection (3), that
subsection shall cease to have effect in relation to the
business for the relevant year; and


Income Tax 171
(d) if by that time an assessment for the relevant year has
been made on the operator by reference to subsection
(3), the Director General shall make such additional
assessment or such repayment of tax as may be
necessary in consequence of the application of this
subsection for the relevant year.
(5) In this section, in relation to the business, the operator, the
relevant period and the relevant year—
“acceptable certificate” means a certificate produced to the Director
General with respect to which he is satisfied that the amounts specified in
the certificate have been computed by methods not substantially different
from those provided by this Act for the computation of analogous figures
for a similar business carried on by a person who is resident;
“certificate” means a certificate which—
(a) is issued by the authority responsible for the
administration of the tax laws of any country (other than
Malaysia) in which the operator is resident for the
purposes of those laws; and
(b) specifies in respect of the business for the relevant period
the amount of—
(i) the gross income from wherever derived;
(ii) the income or the loss computed for the purpose of
foreign tax by that authority without making any
allowance for depreciation; and
(iii) the total depreciation allowances given by that
authority (excluding any allowance or part thereof
brought forward from a previous period);
“gross income derived from Malaysia for the relevant period” means
the total of all sums first receivable by the operator in the relevant
period in respect of transporting by sea or air (whether before, in or


after the relevant period) passengers or cargo embarked or loaded in
Malaysia into ships or aircraft owned or chartered by the operator,
except sums so receivable in respect of passengers or cargo—
(a) brought to Malaysia, whether by the operator or
otherwise, solely for transfer—
(i) from one ship or aircraft to another;
(ii) from a ship to an aircraft; or
(iii) from an aircraft to a ship; or
(b) so embarked or loaded into such a ship or aircraft if the
call of that ship or aircraft at a port, aerodrome or airport
in Malaysia for that embarkation or loading was a casual
call within the meaning of subsection (6),
less any sums received in the relevant period or prior thereto which are
refunded in the relevant period and any sums first receivable in the
relevant period or prior thereto which in the relevant period cease,
otherwise than on the receipt thereof, to be receivable;
“gross income from wherever derived” means the total of all sums
first receivable by the operator in the relevant period in respect of
transporting by sea or air (whether before, in or after the relevant
period) passengers or cargo in ships or aircraft owned or chartered by
the operator;
“world income”, in relation to a certificate which is an acceptable
certificate, means the amount of any income specified in that
certificate in accordance with subparagraph (b)(ii) of the definition of
“certificate” in this subsection, as reduced by the amount of the
depreciation allowances specified in that certificate, less any sums
received in the relevant period or prior thereto which are refunded in
the relevant period and any sums first receivable in the relevant period
or prior thereto which in the relevant period cease, otherwise than on
the receipt thereof, to be receivable;


Income Tax 173
“world loss”, in relation to a certificate which is an acceptable
certificate, means—
(a) the amount of any loss specified in that certificate
together with the amount of the depreciation allowances
specified in that certificate; or
(b) where the amount of those allowances exceeds the
amount of the income specified in that certificate in
accordance with subparagraph (b)(ii) of the definition of
“certificate” in this subsection, the amount of the excess.
(6) A call at a port, aerodrome or airport in Malaysia (in this
subsection referred to as a Malaysian call) by a ship or aircraft owned
or chartered by the operator (in this subsection referred to as a relevant
craft) is a casual call for the purposes of subsection (5) only if—
(a) apart from that particular Malaysian call there were no
other Malaysian calls by that or any other relevant craft
in the period of twenty-four consecutive months
immediately prior to that particular Malaysian call; and
(b) the Director General is satisfied that the intention of the
operator is that for the period of twenty-four consecutive
months immediately following that particular Malaysian
call—
(i) that relevant craft will not be making another
Malaysian call (except a call made in the course of
the voyage or flight from the place where that
particular Malaysian call was made); and
(ii) no other relevant craft will be making a Malaysian
call:
Provided that, if within the period mentioned in paragraph (b) that or
any other relevant craft makes another Malaysian call (except, in the
case of that relevant craft, a call made in the course of the voyage or
flight from the place where that particular Malaysian call was made),


that particular Malaysian call shall be treated as never having been a
casual call.
Exemption of shipping profits
*54A. (1) Subject to the following subsections, where a person who
is resident for the basis year for a year of assessment carries on the
business of—
(a) transporting passengers or cargo by sea on a Malaysian
ship; or
(b) letting out on charter a Malaysian ship owned by him on
a voyage or time charter basis,
seventy per cent of the statutory income of that person for that year of
assessment from that business shall be exempt from tax.
(1A) Where subsection (1) applies, a person who is entitled to an
allowance under Schedule 3 and who has not made any claim under
paragraph 77 of that Schedule in respect of such allowance, the amount
of such allowance shall be deemed to have been made to him for the
purpose of ascertaining his statutory income under subsection (1).
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act—
(a) the income derived from each Malaysian ship referred to
under subsection (1) shall be treated as income from a
separate and distinct business source of that person;
(b) the adjusted loss (if any) of the person for any year of
assessment in respect of a source consisting of a
Malaysian ship shall not be available as a deduction in
arriving at the total income of that person for that year of
assessment;
*NOTE—See section 25 of the Finance Act 2012 [Act 742] for explanations.


Income Tax 175
(c) an amount of statutory income of a person form a source
consisting of a Malaysian ship referred to in paragraph
(b) which is exempt under this section for the following
year of assessment shall be reduced by the adjusted loss
referred to in that paragraph, and if by reason of
insufficiency or absence of that statutory income, the
amount of adjusted loss which has not been so utilized
shall further reduce the amount of statutory income of
that person from that source which is exempt under this
section for any subsequent years of assessment until the
amount of adjusted loss is fully utilized; and
(d) an amount of statutory income of a person for a year of
assessment from a source consisting of a Malaysian ship
which is not exempt under this section shall be deemed
to be the total income of that person.
(3) The following provisions shall apply to a person carrying on a
business in respect of which his income is exempt under subsection (1)—
(a) he shall maintain a separate account for the income
derived or deemed to be derived from each Malaysian
ship from that business for the purpose of this section:
Provided that where expenses have been incurred by
that person which are not directly attributable to a
Malaysian ship, the Director General may allocate as
expenses such amounts as might reasonably and
properly have been incurred in the normal course of his
business in respect of such ship;
(b) as soon as any amount of income of the Malaysian ship
is exempted under this section, such amount shall be
credited to an exempt account;
(c) where such exempt account is in credit at the date on
which any dividends are paid by that person (out of
income which has been exempted), an amount equal to


such dividends or to such credit whichever is the lesser,
shall be debited to such account;
(d) any dividend paid, credited or distributed in a basis
period out of such exempt account shall be exempt from
tax; and
(e) where such dividend is received by a shareholder and
that shareholder is a company, any dividend paid by that
shareholding company to its shareholders shall, to the
extent that the Director General is satisfied that the
dividend so paid is paid out of such exempt dividend, be
exempt from tax in the hands of the shareholders.
(f) (Deleted by Act 683).
(4) That person shall deliver to the Director General a copy of the
accounts referred to in subsection (3) made up to any date specified by
him whenever called upon to do so by notice in writing.
(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, where
it appears to the Director General that—
(a) any income of that person which has been exempt; or
(b) any dividend (including a dividend paid by a holding
company to which paragraph (3)(e) applies) exempted in
the hands of any shareholder,
ought not to have been so exempt, the Director General may at any
time—
(i) make such assessment or additional assessment
upon that person or any shareholder as may appear
to be necessary in order to make good any loss of
tax; or


Income Tax 177
(ii) direct that person to debit his account kept in
accordance with subsection (3) with such amount
as the circumstances may require:
Provided that the direction given under this
paragraph shall be deemed to be a notice of
assessment for the purposes of section 99.
(6) For the purposes of this section—
“Malaysian ship” means a sea-going ship registered as such under
the Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1952 [Ord. 70 of 1952], other than
a ferry, barge, tug-boat, supply vessel, crew boat, lighter, dredger,
fishing boat or other similar vessel;
“person” includes a partnership.
54B. (Deleted by Act 293).
Partnerships generally
55. (1) Subject to this section and sections 56 to 59, in the case of a
business of a partnership (in this section referred to as the relevant
partnership) and in relation to a person who is a partner in the relevant
partnership throughout the period during which he was such a partner
it shall for the purposes of this Act be postulated that—
(a) there has been a transfer to that person (in this section
referred to as the sole proprietor) of the business and
assets of the relevant partnership together with all rights
and liabilities of the partners in relation thereto;
(b) the subject matter of the transfer constitutes a business
(in this section and section 56 referred to as the
proprietorship business) of the sole proprietor carried on
by him in a manner similar to the way in which the
relevant partnership business was carried on and in


particular that the accounts of the relevant partnership
business, made up for any period, are the accounts of the
proprietorship business made up for that period.
(2) There shall be ascertained in accordance with the foregoing
provisions of this section and of this Part what would be, but for any
provisions of any of the following subsections, the adjusted income in
this section referred to as the provisional adjusted income of the sole
proprietor from his proprietorship business for the basis period for a
year of assessment.
(3) The divisible income of the proprietorship business for the basis
period for a year of assessment shall be taken to be an amount found
by the deduction from the provisional adjusted income of the sole
proprietor from that business for that period of the total amount of—
(a) any remuneration payable by virtue of any partnership
arrangement of the relevant partnership to any partner
therein for that period or for any part thereof;
(b) any interest payable to any partner in the relevant
partnership for that period or any part thereof in
connection with all capital moneys paid or advanced by
him (otherwise than in a fiduciary capacity, unless in that
capacity he is a partner in the relevant partnership) to the
relevant partnership; and
(c) any expenses incurred during that period in relation to
any partner in the relevant partnership and charged in the
relevant partnership accounts (whether or not for that
period) which—
(i) would have been private or domestic expenses if
incurred by that partner; or
(ii) are reimbursements of private or domestic
expenses incurred by that partner.


Income Tax 179
(4) The amount of the divisible income of the proprietorship
business for the basis period for a year of assessment ascertained under
subsection (3) shall be treated as having accrued evenly over that
period and shall be divided between those who were partners of the
relevant partnership in that period in accordance with the sharing
arrangements (subsisting from time to time during that period) of those
partners in like manner as that amount would have been divisible
between those partners if that amount had been divisible profits from
the business of the relevant partnership accruing evenly over that
period; and so much of that divisible income as is thus found to be
attributable to the sole proprietor shall be taken to be his share of that
divisible income for that period.
(5) The adjusted income of the sole proprietor from the
proprietorship business for the basis period for a year of assessment
shall be taken to be the aggregate of—
(a) so much of the total amount deducted under subsection
(3) in ascertaining the divisible income of that business
for that period as relates to any remuneration, interest or
expenses payable to or incurred in relation to the sole
proprietor; and
(b) his share, ascertained under subsection (4), of the
divisible income of that business for that period.
(6) For the purposes of subsection (3) of this section, the amount of
any remuneration or interest shall be ascertained whenever necessary
by applying subsection 19(3) as if references therein to Chapter 4 were
references to subsection (3) of this section.
(7) In subsection (4) divisible profits shall not be taken to include
any items of the kind referred to in paragraphs (3)(a), (b) and (c).
Successive partnerships
56. (1) Where, apart from this section, the circumstances are such
that—


(a) section 55 applies to a business of a partnership (in
this section referred to as the old partnership), to a
person (in this section referred to as the continuing
partner) who is a partner therein and to the period
during which he was such a partner;
(b) at some time after the commencement of that
application, section 55 applies to a business of another
partnership (in this section referred to as the new
partnership) to a partner therein who is the continuing
partner and to the period during which he was such a
partner;
(c) those periods are successive periods;
(d) those businesses are substantially similar and to all
intents and purposes (in so far as the continuing partner
is concerned) are carried on successively as if they were
one continuing business (apart from the assets of each of
those partnerships and the rights and liabilities of the
respective partners in relation to each of those
businesses, partnerships and assets),
section 55 in its application to the business of the old partnership, to
the business of the new partnership and to the continuing partner as the
sole proprietor of each of the proprietorship businesses constituted
under that section in relation to the old and new partnerships shall be
subject to such modifications provided for by this section for such
period of time (being a period, in this section referred to as the material
period, some part of which will comprise the whole or part of the
period during which the continuing partner was a partner in the old
partnership and some part of which will comprise the whole or part of
the period during which the continuing partner was a partner in the new
partnership) as may be requisite in all the circumstances for the
purposes of the application of this section, in conjunction with
section 55 as so modified, to the continuing partner in relation to the
businesses of the old and new partnerships and to such other matters
as are provided for by this section.


Income Tax 181
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1)—
(a) this section shall not apply if accounts of the business of
the old partnership have been made up for a period of
twelve months ending on the day prior to the day on
which the new partnership was formed and accounts of
the business of the new partnership have been made up
for a period of twelve months commencing on the day
the new partnership was formed; and
(b) where, prior to the application of this section to the
continuing partner, section 55 has been applied to him in
relation to the old partnership and any assessment has
been made wholly or partly in consequence of that
application of section 55, the subsequent application of
this section shall not invalidate the assessment.
(3) Notwithstanding that, but for this section, upon the formation of
the new partnership during the material period the proprietorship
business of the continuing partner in relation to the old partnership
would have ceased and the proprietorship business of the continuing
partner in relation to the new partnership would have commenced,
those two proprietorship businesses shall throughout the material
period be treated as one continuing proprietorship business (in this
section referred to as the continuing proprietorship business) of the
continuing partner, carried on by him in a manner similar to the way
in which the businesses of the old and new partnerships were carried
on and, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the
accounts of those businesses made up for any period shall be taken to
be the accounts of the continuing proprietorship business made up for
that period.
(4) There shall be ascertained in accordance with the foregoing
provisions of this section and of this Part what would be, but for any
provisions of any of the following subsections, the adjusted income (in
this section referred to as the provisional adjusted income) of the
continuing partner from his continuing proprietorship business for the
basis period for a year of assessment.


(5) The divisible income of the continuing proprietorship business
for the basis period for a year of assessment shall be taken to be an
amount found by the deduction from the provisional adjusted income
of the continuing partner from that business for that period of the total
amount of—
(a) any remuneration payable by virtue of any partnership
arrangement of the old or new partnership to any partner
in the old or new partnership for that period or for any
part thereof;
(b) any interest payable to any partner in the old or new
partnership for that period or any part thereof in
connection with all capital moneys paid or advanced by
him (otherwise than in a fiduciary capacity, unless in that
capacity he is a partner in the old or new partnership) to
the old or new partnership; and
(c) any expenses incurred during that period in relation to
any partner in the old or new partnership and charged in
the accounts of the old or new partnership (whether or
not for that period) which—
(i) would have been private or domestic expenses if
incurred by that partner; or
(ii) are reimbursements of private or domestic
expenses incurred by that partner.
(6) The amount of the divisible income of the continuing
proprietorship business for the basis period for a year of assessment
ascertained under subsection (5)—
(a) if the formation date of the new partnership falls after
that period, shall be treated as having accrued evenly
over that period and shall be divided between those who
were partners of the old partnership in that period in
accordance with the sharing arrangements (subsisting
from time to time during that period) of those partners in


Income Tax 183
like manner as that amount would have been divisible
between those partners if that amount had been divisible
profits from the business of the old partnership accruing
evenly over that period; and so much of that divisible
income as is thus found to be attributable to the
continuing partner shall be taken to be his share of that
divisible income for that period;
(b) if the formation date of the new partnership falls within
that period, shall be treated as having accrued evenly
over that period and shall be divided in the proportion
that the respective lengths of the two parts hereinafter
mentioned bear to the length of that period, namely the
part (in this subsection referred to as the first part) of that
period which falls before that date and the part (in this
subsection referred to as the second part) of that period
which falls on or after that date and—
(i) a sum being so much of that amount as is thus
found to have been apportioned to the first part
shall be treated as having accrued evenly over the
length of the first part and divided between those
who were partners of the old partnership in the first
part in accordance with the sharing arrangements
(subsisting from time to time during the first part)
of those partners in like manner as that sum would
have been divisible between those partners if that
sum had been divisible profits from the business
of the old partnership accruing evenly over the
first part; and so much of that sum as is thus found
to be attributable to the continuing partner shall be
taken to be part of his share of that divisible
income;
(ii) a sum being so much of that amount as is thus
found to have been apportioned to the second part
shall be treated as having accrued evenly over the
length of the second part and shall be divided
between those who were partners of the new


partnership in the second part in accordance with
the sharing arrangements (subsisting from time to
time during the second part) of those partners in
like manner as that sum would have been divisible
between those partners if that sum had been
divisible profits from the business of the new
partnership accruing evenly over the second part;
and so much of that sum as is thus found to be
attributable to the continuing partner shall be taken
to be part of his share of that divisible income; and
(iii) the amount of the part of the continuing partner’s
share ascertained under subparagraph (i) and the
amount of the part of his share ascertained under
subparagraph (ii) shall be aggregated; and the
amount of the aggregate shall be taken to be his
share of that divisible income for that period; and
(c) if the formation date of the new partnership falls before
that period, shall be treated as having accrued evenly
over that period and shall be divided between those who
were partners of the new partnership in that period in
accordance with the sharing arrangements (subsisting
from time to time during that period) of those partners in
like manner as that amount would have been divisible
between those partners if that amount had been divisible
profits from the business of the new partnership accruing
evenly over that period; and so much of that divisible
income as is thus found to be attributable to the
continuing partner shall be taken to be his share of that
divisible income for that period.
(7) For the purposes of subsection (5) of this section, the amount of
any remuneration or interest shall be ascertained whenever necessary
by applying subsection 19(3) as if references therein to Chapter 4 were
references to subsection (5) of this section.


Income Tax 185
(8) The adjusted income of the continuing partner from the
continuing proprietorship business for the basis period for a year of
assessment shall be taken to be the aggregate of—
(a) so much of the total amount deducted under
subsection (5) in ascertaining the divisible income of
that business for that period as relates to any
remuneration, interest or expenses payable to or incurred
in relation to the continuing partner; and
(b) his share, ascertained under paragraph (6)(a), (b)or (c),
as the case may be, of the divisible income of that
business for that period.
(9) In subsection (6) “divisible profits” does not include any items
of the kind referred to in paragraphs (5)(a), (b) and (c).
Provisions applicable where partnership is a partner in another
partnership
57. Where a partnership (in this section referred to as the subsidiary
partnership) is a partner in another partnership (in this section referred
to as the main partnership), then, in relation to a business of the main
partnership—
(a) throughout any period that a person is a partner in the
subsidiary partnership and the subsidiary partnership is
a partner in the main partnership it shall be postulated
that the person in question was a partner in the main
partnership in place of the subsidiary partnership, and
the adjusted income under subsection 55(5) or 56(8) (in
this section referred to as the computed adjusted income)
of that person for the basis period for a year of
assessment as the sole proprietor from his proprietorship
business or as continuing partner from his continuing
proprietorship business, as the case may be, in relation
to the main partnership shall be ascertained under


section 55 or under section 55 in conjunction with
section 56, as the case may be; and
(b) the computed adjusted income for that basis period shall
be divided between the partners of the subsidiary
partnership in like manner as divisible income is divided
under subsection 55(4) or 56(6), as the case may be, and
the amount of the share thereof so ascertained of any
such partner as the sole proprietor or as the continuing
partner as mentioned in subsection 55(4) or 56(6), as the
case may be, shall be taken to be his adjusted income for
the basis period for that year of assessment from the
proprietorship business or continuing proprietorship
business, as the case may be, which he is treated as
having in relation to the main partnership by virtue of
paragraph (a).
Income receivable by partnership otherwise than from
partnership business
58. (1) Where a partnership carries on or shares in the profits of a
business and income is receivable by the partnership (not being income
forming part of the gross income for the basis period for any year of
assessment from any proprietorship business or continuing
proprietorship business in relation to any partner in the partnership)
from a source, then, whether or not the income has been distributed to
the partners, sections 55, 56 and 57 shall apply (with any necessary
modifications) for ascertaining the gross income and adjusted income
for the basis period for a year of assessment from that source of each
partner who is a partner in the partnership as they apply for
ascertaining his gross income and adjusted income for the basis period
for that year from the business.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), in the application of
section 55 or section 55 in conjunction with section 56, as the case
may be, the provisional adjusted income shall be taken to be the
divisible income.


Income Tax 187
Partnership losses
59. (1) In the case of a sole proprietor of a proprietorship business or
of a continuing partner of a continuing proprietorship business referred
to in sections 55 and 56 respectively—
(a) the adjusted loss (in this section referred to as the
provisional adjusted loss) of that proprietor or partner
from that proprietorship or continuing proprietorship
business for the basis period for a year of assessment
shall be ascertained on the same principles as those on
which his provisional adjusted income from the
respective business would, but for that loss, have been
ascertained under section 55 or under section 55 in
conjunction with section 56, as the case may be;
(b) the divisible loss of that proprietorship or continuing
proprietorship business, for the basis period for a year of
assessment shall be found by the addition to the
provisional adjusted loss of that sole proprietor or of that
continuing partner, as the case may be, from that
proprietorship business or continuing proprietorship
business of his for that period of the total amount as
mentioned in and as ascertained under subsections 55(3)
and (5) or subsections 56(5) and (7), as the case may be;
(c) the divisible loss so found with respect to that
proprietorship business or continuing proprietorship
business shall be divided in like manner as divisible
income from that business would have been divided if
there had been divisible income for that period, and so
much of that divisible loss as is thus found to be
attributable to that sole proprietor or continuing partner
shall be taken to be his share of that divisible loss for that
period; and
(d) the adjusted loss of that sole proprietor or continuing
partner from that proprietorship business or continuing


proprietorship business for that basis period shall be
taken to be the difference between—
(i) his share, ascertained pursuant to paragraph (c), of the
divisible loss of that proprietorship business or
continuing proprietorship business for that period;
and
(ii) so much of the total amount added pursuant to
paragraph (b) as relates to any remuneration,
interest or expenses payable to or incurred in
relation to him as a partner in the partnership in
relation to which he is taken to be a sole proprietor
or a continuing partner, as the case may be:
Provided that, if in relation to any person the sum found under
subparagraph (d)(ii) exceeds the share referred to in
subparagraph (d)(i), the difference between that sum and that share
shall be treated as the amount of that person’s adjusted income for that
period from that proprietorship business or from that continuing
proprietorship business, as the case may be.
(2) For the purposes of section 55 or section 55 in conjunction with
section 56, where the total amount as mentioned in and ascertained
under subsections 55(3) and (5) or subsections 56(5) and (7), as the
case may be, exceeds the provisional adjusted income of the sole
proprietor from his proprietorship business or the continuing partner
from his continuing proprietorship business, as the case may be, for
the basis period for a year of assessment, the excess shall be taken to
be the divisible loss for that period from that proprietorship business
or continuing proprietorship business, as the case may be, and
paragraphs (1)(c) and (d) shall apply accordingly.
(3) In a case where section 57 would apply but for the absence of
any adjusted income, the foregoing subsections shall apply with the
following additional provisions:
(a) the adjusted loss (in this subsection referred to as the
computed adjusted loss) of the sole proprietor from his


Income Tax 189
proprietorship business or of the continuing partner
from his continuing proprietorship business, as the
case may be, in relation to the main partnership for the
basis period for a year of assessment shall be
ascertained under subsection (1); and
(b) the computed adjusted loss for that basis period shall be
divided between the partners of the subsidiary
partnership in like manner as it would have been divided
under paragraph 57(b) if the computed adjusted loss had
been computed adjusted income within the meaning of
that section; and the amount of the share thereof so
ascertained of any such partner as the sole proprietor or
as the continuing partner, as the case may be, shall be
taken to be his adjusted loss for the basis period for that
year of assessment from the proprietorship business or
continuing proprietorship business, as the case may be,
which he is treated as having in relation to the main
partnership by virtue of paragraph 57(a).
Insurance business
60. (1) This section shall apply for ascertaining the adjusted income
for the basis period for a year of assessment from the insurance
business of an insurer.
(2) For the purposes of this section—
(a) subject to paragraph (b), where an insurer carries on life
business in conjunction with general business, the life
business and the general business shall be treated as
separate insurance businesses;
(b) where an insurer carries on reinsurance business, the
reinsurance business and the general business
(excluding the reinsurance business) shall be treated as
separate general businesses;


(c) where an insurer carries on life business, the income of
the life fund shall be treated as a separate source of
income from the income of the shareholders’ fund in
respect of the life business:
Provided that where the insurer also carries on life
reinsurance business, the life reinsurance business
shall be a separate source from life business and shall be
treated as a general business;
(d) where an insurer carries on only life reinsurance
business, the life reinsurance business shall be treated
as a general business.
(3) The adjusted income of the life fund, other than income arising
from life reinsurance business, for the basis period for a year of
assessment of an insurer resident for the basis year for that year of
assessment shall be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made out of any of the insurer’s
life funds; and
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of those investments or any rights
arising from them; and
(b) deducting from that aggregate where subparagraph (a)(ii) is
applicable for that period to gross proceeds receivable in
connection with any investments or rights, the cost of
acquiring and realizing those investments or rights.


Income Tax 191
(3A) The adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund for the basis
period for a year of assessment of an insurer resident for the basis year
for that year of assessment shall be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made out of any of the
shareholders’ funds;
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of those investments or any rights
arising from them; and
(iii) the amount of the actuarial surplus from the life fund
that is transferred to the shareholders’ fund; and
(b) deducting from that aggregate—
(i) where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investments or rights, the cost of
acquiring and realizing those investments or
rights; and
(ii) so much of the amount transferred from the
shareholders’ fund as is equal to the actuarial
deficit for that period arising from the life fund,
other than the deficit from life reinsurance
business.
(4) The adjusted income of the life fund, other than income arising
from life reinsurance business, of an insurer not resident for the basis
year for that year of assessment shall where that business is wholly or
partly carried on in Malaysia as ascertained by—


(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
investments made (in Malaysia or elsewhere) out
of the insurer’s Malaysian life fund; and
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of those investments or any rights
arising from them; and
(b) deducting from that aggregate where subparagraph
(a)(ii) is applicable for that period to gross proceeds
receivable in connection with any investments or rights,
the cost of acquiring and realizing those investments or
rights.
(4A) The adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund for the basis
period for a year of assessment of an insurer not resident for the basis
year for that year of assessment shall, where that business is wholly or
partly carried on in Malaysia, be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made out of any of the
shareholders’ funds;
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of those investments or any rights
arising from them; and


Income Tax 193
(iii) the amount of the actuarial surplus from the life
fund that is transferred to the shareholders’ fund;
and
(b) deducting from that aggregate—
(i) where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investments or rights, the cost of
acquiring and realizing those investments or
rights; and
(ii) so much of the amount transferred from the
shareholders’ fund as is equal to the actuarial
deficit for that period arising from the life fund,
other than the deficit from life reinsurance
business.
(4B) The adjusted income as ascertained under subsections (3A) and
(4A) shall be deemed to be the statutory income from that source.
(4C) For the purposes of ascertaining the adjusted income of the
life fund, shareholders’ fund or general business referred to in
subsection (3), (3A), (4), (4A), (5) or (6), as the case may be, the cost
of acquiring and realizing any investments or rights for the basis period
for a year of assessment shall include expenses incurred in managing
those investments or rights, and such expenses incurred shall be
determined in accordance with the following formula:
A x C
B
where A is the cost of acquiring any investments or rights
which is realized in that period in respect of
such fund or general business;
B is the total cost of acquiring all investments or
rights held during that period in respect of such
fund or general business; and


C is the total expenses incurred in that period for
managing all investments or rights held during
that period in respect of such fund or general
business.
(5) The adjusted income for the basis period for a year of
assessment from the general business of an insurer resident for the
basis year for that year of assessment shall consist of an amount arrived
at by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of the gross premiums first receivable
in that period in respect of general policies issued
by him (less the amount of any premiums received
at any time in respect of any such general policies
and returned by him during that period);
(ii) the amount of any other gross income for that
period from the general business of the insurer
(including any commissions and any interest or
other income from investments held in connection
with that business);
(iii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (ii) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of those investments or any rights
arising from them;
(iv) any amounts recovered or recoverable by him in
that period under reinsurance contracts made in
connection with that business; and
(v) the amount of his reserve fund for unexpired risks
at the end of the immediately preceding basis
period; and


Income Tax 195
(b) subject to subsection (7), deducting from that aggregate
the amount of—
(i) claims incurred in that period in connection with
his general policies;
(ii) reinsurance premiums payable by him in that
period in connection with that business;
(iii) commissions payable and discounts allowed by
him in that period in connection with that business;
(iv) management expenses incurred by him in that
period in connection with that business;
(v) his reserve fund for unexpired risks at the end of
that period; and
(vi) where subparagraph (a)(iii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investments or rights, the cost of
acquiring and realizing those investments or
rights.
(5A) The adjusted income for the basis period for a year of
assessment from the reinsurance business of an insurer resident for the
basis year for that year of assessment shall consist of an amount arrived
at by applying subsection (5) as if references therein to “general
business” and “general policies” were references to “reinsurance
business” and “reinsurance contracts” respectively.
(5B) (Deleted by Act 812).
(5C) The adjusted income for the basis period for a year of
assessment from the life reinsurance business of a life insurer resident
for that basis year for that year of assessment shall consist of an amount
arrived at by applying subsection (5) as if references therein to—


(a) “general business of an insurer” were references to “life
reinsurance business of a life insurer”;
(b) “general policies” were references to “life reinsurance
policies”; and
(c) “reserve fund for unexpired risks” were references to
“actuarial valuation reserve”.
(6) The adjusted income for the basis period for a year of assessment
from the general business of an insurer not resident for the basis year for
that year of assessment shall where that business is wholly or partly
carried on in Malaysia consist of an amount arrived at by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of the gross premiums first receivable
in that period in respect of Malaysian general
policies issued by him (less any premiums
received at any time on account of any such
Malaysian general policies returned by him in that
period);
(ii) the amount of any other gross income for that
period derived from Malaysia from that business
(including gross income consisting of
commissions and gross income from investments,
wherever made, held in connection with that
business);
(iii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (ii) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of those investments or any rights
arising from them;
(iv) any amounts recovered or recoverable by him in
that period under reinsurance contracts made in


Income Tax 197
connection with Malaysian general policies of that
business; and
(v) the amount of his reserve fund for unexpired risks
relating to any such Malaysian general policies at the
end of the immediately preceding basis period; and
(b) subject to subsection (7), deducting from that aggregate
the amount of—
(i) claims incurred in that period in connection with
his Malaysian general policies;
(ii) reinsurance premiums payable by him in that
period in connection with any such Malaysian
general policies;
(iii) commissions payable and discounts given by him
in that period in connection with any such
Malaysian general policies;
(iv) management expenses incurred by him in
Malaysia in that period in connection with that
business;
(v) his reserve fund for unexpired risks relating to any
such Malaysian general policies at the end of that
period;
(vi) a portion of the insurer’s head office expenses
incurred by him in that period which is fair and
reasonable if, in relation to that period, regard is
had to the gross premiums receivable by him in
respect of Malaysian general policies issued by
him in that period as compared with the total gross
premiums receivable by him in respect of all
general policies issued by him in that period; and


(vii) where subparagraph (a)(iii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investments or rights, the cost of
acquiring and realizing those investments or
rights.
(6A) The adjusted income for the basis period for a year of
assessment from the reinsurance business of an insurer not resident
for the basis year for that year of assessment shall, where that business
is wholly or partly carried on in Malaysia, consist of an amount arrived
at by applying subsection (6) as if references therein to “general
business” and “Malaysian general policies” were references to
“reinsurance business” and “reinsurance contracts” respectively.
(6B) (Deleted by Act 812).
(6C) The adjusted income for the basis period for a year of assessment
from the life reinsurance business of a life insurer not resident for the
basis year for that year of assessment shall, where that business is wholly
or partly carried on in Malaysia, consist of an amount arrived at by
applying subsection (6) as if references therein to—
(a) “general business of an insurer” were references to “life
reinsurance business of a life insurer”;
(b) “Malaysian general policies” were references to
“Malaysian life reinsurance policies”; and
(c) “reserve fund for unexpired risks” were references to
“actuarial valuation reserve”.
(7) Where an insurer carrying on general business has reinsured
the risk or part of the risk with a reinsurer who either does not carry on
the business of insuring risks of that kind in Malaysia or does not
reinsure the risk through a branch in Malaysia, there may be deducted
under subparagraph (5)(b)(ii) or (6)(b)(ii) in respect of such risks
which are reinsured only ninety-five per cent of the amount which
would otherwise be deductible:


Income Tax 199
Provided that in a case to which subsection (6) or (6A) applies—
(a) the insurer may elect that no deductions shall be made
under subparagraph (6)(b)(ii); and
(b) where he does so—
(i) the election shall be irrevocable and shall apply in
relation to the basis period for the year of
assessment for which it is made and for the basis
periods for all subsequent years of assessment; and
(ii) amounts recoverable under reinsurance
contracts shall be disregarded for the purposes of
subparagraph (6)(a)(iv).
(8) Where an insurer in connection with his life business or his
general business receives any incidental gross income (not being a
premium on a policy issued in the course of carrying on that life or
general business) for which subsections (3) to (7) do not provide, that
income shall be treated as income of the insurer falling under
paragraph 4(f) and he shall be deemed to have a separate source in
respect of it.
(9) For the purposes of this section an insurer’s reserve fund for
unexpired risks at the end of a basis period shall consist of—
(a) twenty-five per cent of the difference between the gross
premiums first receivable by him in that period in respect
of marine, aviation or transit policies issued by him and
the amount deducted under subparagraph (5)(b)(ii) or
(6)(b)(ii); and
(b) an amount calculated based on the method of computation
as determined by the relevant authority regulating the
insurance industry and which is consistently applied to
premiums first receivable by him in that period in respect of
other general policies issued by him (less the amount
deducted under subparagraph (5)(b)(ii) or 6(b)(ii)).


(10) Where under this section all such deductions as would be made
in computing what would have been the adjusted income for the basis
period for a year of assessment from the insurance business of an
insurer if any such adjustment income had been ascertainable exceed
the aggregate of the amounts from which those deductions would
otherwise have been made, the amount of the excess shall be taken to
be the amount of his adjusted loss from that business for that period.
(10A) Notwithstanding subsections (10), 43(2) and 44(2), any
adjusted loss of the life fund for the basis period for a year of
assessment of an insurer shall only be available as a deduction against
the statutory income of the life fund of the insurer for subsequent years
of assessment until fully utilized.
(10B) Notwithstanding paragraph 75 of Schedule 3, any
unabsorbed allowances of the life business shall only be available for
deduction against the adjusted income for the basis period for a year
of assessment and subsequent years of assessment in respect of the life
fund of the insurer.
(10C) Allowances under Schedule 3 shall only be available for
deduction against the adjusted income of the life fund and the balance
of such allowances shall not be available as a deduction against the
adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund.
(10D) In arriving at the total income of an insurer for a year of
assessment, the adjusted loss from a source or sources of an insurer for
that year of assessment other than from a source consisting of a life
fund, shall be available as deduction against the aggregate statutory
income (excluding the statutory income from a source consisting of a
life fund) of an insurer, and any unabsorbed loss ascertained under
subsection 44(4) or (5) for that year of assessment shall not be
deducted against the statutory income of the life fund of the insurer for
the subsequent years of assessment.
(11) In this section and section 60A —
“general business” means all insurance business which is not life
business;


Income Tax 201
“general policy” means a policy other than a life policy;
“insurer” means a person who carries on insurance business and
includes a professional reinsurer;
“investments” includes any accretions thereto;
“life business” has the same meaning assigned thereto under section 2 of
the *Insurance Act 1996 [Act 553];
“life policy” has the same meaning assigned thereto under section 2
of the *Insurance Act 1996;
“Malaysian life fund” means the fund established pursuant to
section 38 of the *Insurance Act 1996;
“Malaysian policy” has the same meaning assigned there to under
section 2 of the *Insurance Act 1996;
“policy” has the same meaning assigned thereto under section 2 of
the *Insurance Act 1996;
“premium” has the same meaning assigned thereto under section 2
of the Insurance Act 1996;
“reinsurance” has the same meaning assigned thereto under section 2 of
the Insurance Act 1996;
Reinsurance: chargeable income, reduced rate and exempt
dividend
60A. (1) (a) Where an insurer carries on reinsurance business in
conjunction with other insurance businesses, the part of
the chargeable income for a year of assessment which is
attributable to that reinsurance business shall consist of
*NOTE—The Insurance Act 1996 [Act 553] has since been repealed by the Financial Services
Act 2013 [Act 758] which comes into operation on 30 June 2013–see section 271 of Act 758.


an amount which bears the same proportion to the
chargeable income for that year of assessment of the
insurer as the part of the aggregate income which relates
to the reinsurance business bears to the whole of the
aggregate income for that year of assessment from all
sources of the insurer; and
(b) the amount arrived at under paragraph (a) shall be
treated as his chargeable income for a year of assessment
of an insurer from reinsurance business for the purposes
of paragraph 3 of Part I of Schedule 1.
(2) As soon as any amount of chargeable income from the
reinsurance business of an insurer (being a company) resident for the
basis year for a year of assessment has been subject to income tax at
the rate of 8 per cent—
(a) the net amount of that income (after deduction of such
tax) shall be credited to an account (that account and
company being referred to as the exempt account and the
relevant company respectively); and
(b) paragraph 5 (except subparagraph (1) thereof) and
paragraph 6 of Schedule 7A shall apply as if any
reference in those paragraphs to any income exempted
or which has become exempt under paragraph 3 were a
reference to income credited to the exempt account.
(3) This section shall apply to an insurer who has an adequate
number of full time employees and has incurred an adequate amount
of annual operating expenditure in Malaysia as prescribed by the
Minister.
Takaful business
60AA. (1) This section shall apply―


Income Tax 203
(a) for ascertaining the adjusted income for the basis period
for a year of assessment from the takaful business of a
takaful operator; and
(b) to a takaful operator who has an adequate number of full
time employees and has incurred an adequate amount of
annual operating expenditure in Malaysia as prescribed
by the Minister.
(2) For the purposes of this section—
(a) subject to paragraph (b), where a takaful operator carries
on family takaful business (in this section referred to as
“family business”) in conjunction with general takaful
business, the family business and the general takaful
business shall be treated as separate takaful businesses;
(b) where the takaful operator carries on a retakaful business,
the retakaful business and the general takaful business
(excluding the retakaful business) shall be treated as
separate general takaful businesses;
(c) where a takaful operator carries on family business, the
income of the fund established in respect of that business
(in this section referred to as “family fund”) shall be
treated as a separate source of income from the income
of the shareholders’ fund in respect of the family
business:
Provided that where the takaful operator also carries
on family retakaful business, the family retakaful
business shall be a separate source from the family
business and shall be treated as a general takaful
business;
(d) where a takaful operator carries on only family retakaful
business, that business shall be treated as a general takaful
business; and


(e) where a takaful operator carries on retakaful business
which includes family retakaful business and general
takaful business (excluding those businesses), the
income of the fund established in respect of each of the
businesses (in this section referred to as “retakaful fund”,
“family retakaful fund” and “general fund” respectively)
shall be treated as a separate source of income from the
income of the shareholders’ fund in respect of those
businesses.
(3) The adjusted income of the family fund, other than income
arising from family retakaful business, for the basis period for a year of
assessment of a takaful operator resident for the basis year for that year
of assessment shall be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made out of any of the takaful
operator’s family funds; and
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of the investments or any right
arising from them; and
(b) deducting from that aggregate—
(i) where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investment or right, the cost of acquiring
and realizing the investments or rights; and
(ii) the proportion of profits from investments
distributed or credited to the takaful participant or
to the shareholders’ fund for that period out of any
of the takaful operator’s family funds.


Income Tax 205
(4) The adjusted income of the family fund, other than income
arising from family retakaful business, for the basis period for a year of
assessment of a takaful operator not resident for the basis year for that
year of assessment shall, where that business is wholly or partly carried
on in Malaysia, be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made (in Malaysia or elsewhere)
out of the takaful operator’s Malaysian family
funds; and
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of the investments or any right
arising from them; and
(b) deducting from that aggregate—
(i) where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investment or right, the cost of acquiring
and realizing the investments or rights; and
(ii) the proportion of profits from investments
distributed or credited to the takaful participant or
to the shareholders’ fund for that period out of any
of the takaful operator’s Malaysian family funds.
(5) The adjusted income of the general fund in respect of general
takaful business for the basis period for a year of assessment of a takaful
operator resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall be
ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—


(i) the amount of the gross takaful contributions first
receivable in that period in respect of general
takaful certificate, issued by him (less the amount
of any takaful contribution or contract received at
any time in respect of such certificate or contract
and returned by him during the period and the
amount of wakalah fee which is attributable to the
shareholders’ fund);
(ii) the amount of any other gross income for that
period from that business (including any
commission and any profit from investment held
in connection with that business);
(iii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (ii) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of the investments or any right
arising from them;
(iv) any amount recovered or recoverable by him in
that period under retakaful contracts made in
connection with that business; and
(v) the amount of his reserve fund for unexpired risks
at the end of the immediately preceding basis
period; and
(b) subject to subsection (12), by deducting from that
aggregate the amount of—
(i) claims incurred in that period in connection with
his general takaful certificate;
(ii) takaful contributions payable by the takaful
operator in that period under retakaful contracts in
connection with that business;


Income Tax 207
(iii) commissions payable and discounts allowed by
him in that period in connection with that business
carried out in accordance with the principle of
mudharabah;
(iv) his reserve fund for unexpired risks at the end of
that period;
(v) where subparagraph (a)(iii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investment or right, the cost of acquiring
and realizing the investments or rights;
(vi) any fee other than wakalah fee attributable to the
shareholders’ fund;
(vii) any share of profits distributed or credited to the
takaful participant or shareholders’ fund for that
period out of any of the takaful operator’s general
fund; and
(viii) management expenses incurred by him in that
period in connection with his general takaful
business carried out in accordance with the
principle of mudharabah.
(6) The adjusted income of the retakaful fund or family retakaful
fund for the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of retakaful
business, or family retakaful business respectively of a takaful operator
resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall consist of
an amount arrived at by applying subsection (5) and references in that
subsection to―
(a) “general takaful certificate” shall be construed as
references to “retakaful contract” or “takaful certificate
in relation to its family retakaful business”, as the case
may be;


(b) “general takaful business” shall be construed as
references to “retakaful business” or “family retakaful
business”, as the case may be; and
(c) “reserve fund for unexpired risks” and “takaful operator”
shall, in the case of family retakaful business, be
construed as references to “actuarial valuation reserve”
and “family takaful operator” respectively:
Provided that in the case of retakaful business, no deduction shall be
allowed on any share of profits distributed or credited to the takaful
participant or shareholders’ fund for that period out of any of the
takaful operator’s fund, as the case may be.
(7) The adjusted income of the general fund in respect of general
takaful business for the basis period for a year of assessment of a takaful
operator not resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall,
where that business is wholly or partly carried on in Malaysia be
ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of the gross takaful contribution first
receivable in that period in respect of Malaysian
general takaful certificate or contract, issued by
him (less the amount of any takaful contribution
received at any time in respect of such certificate
or contract and returned by him during the period
and the amount of wakalah fee which is
attributable to the shareholders’ fund);
(ii) the amount of any other gross income for that
period derived from Malaysia from that business
(including any commission and any profit from
investment, wherever made, held in connection
with that business);
(iii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income


Income Tax 209
to which subparagraph (ii) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of the investments or any right
arising from them;
(iv) any amount recovered or recoverable by him in
that period under retakaful contracts made in
connection with Malaysian general takaful
certificate of that business; and
(v) the amount of his reserve fund for unexpired risks
relating to any such Malaysian general takaful
certificate at the end of the immediately preceding
basis period; and
(b) subject to subsection (12), by deducting from that
aggregate the amount of—
(i) claims incurred in that period in connection with
his Malaysian general takaful certificate;
(ii) takaful contributions payable by the takaful
operator in that period under retakaful contracts in
connection with any such Malaysian general
takaful certificate;
(iii) commissions payable and discounts allowed by
him in that period in connection with any such
Malaysian general takaful certificate of that
business carried out in accordance with the
principle of mudharabah;
(iv) his reserve fund for unexpired risks relating to any
such Malaysian general takaful certificate at the
end of that period;
(v) where subparagraph (a)(iii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection


with any investment or right, the cost of acquiring
and realizing the investment or right;
(vi) any fee other than wakalah fee attributable to the
shareholders’ fund;
(vii) any share of profits distributed or credited to the
takaful participant or to the shareholders’ fund for
that period out of any of the takaful operator’s
Malaysian general fund ; and
(viii) management expenses incurred by him in that
period in connection with his general takaful
business carried out in accordance with the
principle of mudharabah.
(8) The adjusted income of the retakaful fund, or family retakaful
fund for the basis period for a year of assessment in respect of retakaful
business or family retakaful business respectively of a takaful operator
not resident for the basis year for that year of assessment shall, where
that business is wholly or partly carried on in Malaysia, consist of an
amount arrived at by applying subsection (7) and references in that
subsection to―
(a) “Malaysian general takaful certificate” shall be
construed as references to “retakaful contract” or
“Malaysian takaful certificate in relation to its family
retakaful business”, as the case may be;
(b) “general takaful business” shall be construed as
references to “retakaful business” or “family retakaful
business”, as the case may be; and
(c) “reserve fund for unexpired risks” and “takaful operator”
shall, in the case of family retakaful business, be
construed as references to “actuarial valuation reserve”
and “family takaful operator” respectively:


Income Tax 211
Provided that in the case of retakaful business, no deduction shall be
allowed on any share of profits distributed or credited to the takaful
participant or shareholders’ fund for that period out of any of the
takaful operator’s retakaful fund, as the case may be.
(9) The adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund, for the basis
period for a year of assessment of a takaful operator resident for the
basis year for that year of assessment shall be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made by the takaful operator out
of any of the shareholders’ funds;
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of the investments or any right
arising from them;
(iii) the amount of gross income for that period in
respect of wakalah fee or any other fee receivable
in connection with the family fund, the general
fund, retakaful fund, or family retakaful fund;
(iv) any amount of qard recovered by him in that
period in connection with the family fund;
(v) the amount of gross income for that period in
respect of profits from investments distributed or
credited from family fund, or in respect of profits
distributed or credited from general fund or family
retakaful fund; and
(vi) the amount of actuarial surplus from the family fund
that is transferred to the shareholders’ fund; and


(b) deducting from that aggregate—
(i) where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investment or right, the cost of acquiring
and realizing the investments or rights;
(ii) so much of the amount of qard incurred in that
period in connection with the family fund;
(iii) the amount of management expenses incurred by
him in that period in connection with—
(A) wakalah fee receivable in relation to the
family fund, general fund, inward retakaful
fund, offshore fund or family retakaful fund;
or
(B) any other fee receivable in relation to the
family fund, general fund, inward retakaful
fund, offshore fund or family retakaful fund;
and
(C) (Deleted by Act 833);
(iv) commission payable and discounts allowed by him
in that period in connection with his family
business and general takaful business carried out
in accordance with the principle of wakalah.
(10) The adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund, for the basis
period for a year of assessment of a takaful operator not resident for
the basis year for that year of assessment shall, where that business is
wholly or partly carried on in Malaysia be ascertained by—
(a) taking the aggregate of—


Income Tax 213
(i) the amount of gross income for that period from
the investments made by the takaful operator out
of any of the shareholders’ funds;
(ii) the amount of any gross proceeds (whether or not
of an income nature) which are not gross income
to which subparagraph (i) applies and which are
first receivable in that period in connection with
the realization of the investments or any right
arising from them;
(iii) the amount of gross income for that period in
respect of wakalah fee or any other fee receivable
in connection with the family fund, general fund,
retakaful fund, or family retakaful fund;
(iv) any amount of qard recovered by him in that
period in connection with the family fund;
(v) the amount of gross income for that period in
respect of profits from investments distributed or
credited from family fund, or in respect of profits
distributed or credited from general fund or family
retakaful fund; and
(vi) the amount of actuarial surplus from the family
fund that is transferred to the shareholders’ fund;
and
(b) deducting from that aggregate—
(i) where subparagraph (a)(ii) is applicable for that
period to gross proceeds receivable in connection
with any investment or right, the cost of acquiring
and realizing the investments or rights;
(ii) so much of the amount of qard incurred in that
period in connection with the family fund;


(iii) the amount of management expenses incurred by
him in that period in connection with—
(A) wakalah fee receivable in relation to the
family fund, general fund, inward retakaful
fund, offshore fund or family retakaful; or
(B) any other fee receivable in relation to the
family fund, general fund, inward retakaful
fund, offshore fund or family retakaful fund;
and
(C) (Deleted by Act 833);
(iv) commission payable and discounts allowed by him
in that period in connection with his family
business and general takaful business carried out
in accordance with the principle of wakalah.
(10A) For the purposes of ascertaining the adjusted income of the
family fund, general fund or shareholders’ fund referred to in
subsection (3), (4), (5), (7), (9) or (10), as the case may be, the cost of
acquiring and realizing any investments or rights for the basis period
for a year of assessment shall include expenses incurred in managing
those investments or rights, and such expenses incurred shall be
determined in accordance with the following formula:
A x C
B
where A is the cost of acquiring any investments or rights
which is realized in that period in respect of
such fund;
B is the total cost of acquiring all investments or
rights held during that period in respect of such
fund; and


Income Tax 215
C is the total expenses incurred in that period for
managing all investments or rights held during
that period in respect of such fund.
(10B) (Deleted by Act 833).
.
(11) (Deleted by Act 833).
(12) Where a takaful operator carrying on general takaful business
has retakaful the risks or part of the risks with a retakaful
operator who either does not carry on the business of takaful of that
kind in Malaysia or does not retakaful the risks through a branch in
Malaysia, there may be deducted under subparagraph (5)(b)(ii) or
(7)(b)(ii) in respect of such risks which are retakaful only ninety-five
per cent of the amount which would otherwise be deductible:
Provided that in the case where subsection (7) or (8) apply (other than
in the case of family retakaful business), the takaful operator may elect
that no deductions shall be made under subparagraph (7)(b)(ii) and if he
does so—
(a) the election shall be irrevocable and shall apply in
relation to the basis period for the year of assessment for
which it is made and for the basis periods for all
subsequent years of assessment; and
(b) amounts recoverable under retakaful contracts shall be
disregarded for the purposes of subparagraph (7)(a)(iv).
(13) Where a takaful operator in connection with his family
business or his general takaful business receives any incidental gross
income (not being a takaful contribution on a certificate issued in the
course of carrying on that family or general takaful business) for which
subsections (3) to (10) and subsection (12) do not provide, that income
shall be treated as income of the takaful operator falling under
paragraph 4(f) and he shall be deemed to have a separate source in
respect of it.


(14) Where under this section all such deductions as would be made
in computing what would have been the adjusted income for the basis
period for a year of assessment from takaful business of a takaful
operator if any such adjustment income had been ascertainable exceed
the aggregate of the amounts from which those deductions would
otherwise have been made, the amount of the excess shall be taken to
be the amount of his adjusted loss from that business for that period.
(15) Notwithstanding subsection (14) and subsection 43(2), any
unabsorbed losses of the family fund shall only be available for
deduction against the statutory income for the basis period for a year
of assessment and subsequent years of assessment in respect of the
family fund of the takaful operator.
(15A) In arriving at the total income of a takaful operator for a year
of assessment —
(a) the adjusted loss from a source or sources of a takaful
operator for that year of assessment other than from a
source consisting of a family fund, shall be available as
deduction against the aggregate statutory income
(excluding the statutory income from a source consisting
of a family fund) of a takaful operator; and
(b) any unabsorbed loss ascertained under subsection 44(4)
or (5) for that year of assessment shall not be deducted
against the statutory income of the family fund of the
takaful operator for the subsequent years of assessment.
(16) Notwithstanding paragraph 75 of Schedule 3, any unabsorbed
allowances of the family fund shall only be available for deduction
against the adjusted income for the basis period for a year of
assessment and subsequent years of assessment in respect of the family
fund of the takaful operator.
(17) (Deleted by Act 833).
(17A) Allowances under Schedule 3 shall only be available for
deduction against the adjusted income of the shareholders’ fund of the


Income Tax 217
takaful operator and the balance of such allowances shall not be
available for deduction against the adjusted income of the family fund
or general fund of the takaful operator.
(17B) The allowances under subsection (17A) shall be in relation to
any asset acquired under the shareholders’ fund of the takaful operator
on or after 1 January 2022.
(17C) Notwithstanding paragraph 75 of Schedule 3, any
unabsorbed allowances of the shareholders’ fund of the takaful
operator shall only be available for deduction against the adjusted
income for the basis period for a year of assessment and subsequent
years of assessment in respect of the shareholders’ fund of the takaful
operator.
(17D) Where in respect of any asset acquired prior to
1 January 2022, allowances under Schedule 3 which have been
claimed or ought to have been claimed as deduction against the
adjusted income of the family fund or general fund of the takaful
operator, such allowances shall be claimed as deduction against the
adjusted income of the family fund or general fund of the takaful
operator until the whole amount of the allowances is claimed.
(18) Any income which is distributed or credited to a takaful
participant under this section shall be deemed to be derived from
Malaysia.
(19) The chargeable income in respect of the family fund as
determined under subsections (3) and (4) is subject to tax as specified
under Part XII of Schedule 1.
(20) Where a takaful operator carries on retakaful business in
conjunction with other takaful businesses, the part of the chargeable
income for a year of assessment which is attributable to that retakaful
business shall consist of an amount which bears the same proportion
to the chargeable income for that year of assessment of the takaful
operator as the part of the aggregate income which relates to the
retakaful business bears to the whole of the aggregate income for that
year of assessment from all sources of the takaful operator.


(21) The amount arrived at under subsection (20) shall be treated as
his chargeable income for a year of assessment of a takaful operator
from retakaful business for the purposes of paragraph 4 of Part I of
Schedule 1.
(22) As soon as any amount of chargeable income from the
retakaful business of a takaful operator, being a company resident for
the basis year for a year of assessment, has been subject to income tax
at the rate of eight per cent—
(a) the net amount of that income (after deduction of such
tax) shall be credited to an account (that account and
company being referred to as the exempt account and the
relevant company respectively); and
(b) paragraph 5 (except subparagraph (1) thereof) and
paragraph 6 of Schedule 7A shall apply as if any
reference in those paragraphs to any income exempted
or which has become exempt under paragraph 3 were a
reference to income credited to the exempt account.
(23) In this section—
“family takaful business” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“general takaful business” means all takaful business which is not
family takaful business;
“general takaful certificate” means a certificate other than a family
takaful certificate;
“investment” includes any accretions thereto;
“Malaysian family takaful fund” means the takaful fund in respect of
Malaysian family takaful certificate;
“Malaysian takaful certificate” has the same meaning assigned to it
under subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;


Income Tax 219
“qard” means a benevolent loan or other forms of financial support
to the takaful fund from the shareholders’ fund made pursuant to
section 95 of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“retakaful” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“takaful” has the same meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the
*Takaful Act 1984;
“takaful business” has the same meaning assigned to it under
section 2 of the *Takaful Act 1984;
“takaful certificate” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“takaful contribution” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“takaful operator” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“takaful participant” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 2(1) of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013;
“wakalah fee” means a fee in respect of a contract which gives the
power to a person to nominate another person to act on his behalf based
on agreed terms and conditions.
(24) For the purpose of this section, a takaful operator’s reserve
fund for unexpired risks at the end of a basis period shall consist of—
(a) twenty-five per cent of the difference between the gross
takaful contributions first receivable by him in that
period in respect of marine, aviation or transit
certificates issued by him and the amount deducted
*NOTE—The Takaful Act 1984 [Act 312] has since been repealed by the
Islamic Financial Finance Act 2013 [Act 759] which comes into operation on 30 June 2013–see section
282 of Act 759.


under subparagraph (5)(b)(ii) or (7)(b)(ii); and
(b) an amount calculated based on the method of
computation as determined by the relevant authority
regulating the takaful industry and which is consistently
applied to takaful contributions first receivable by him
in that period in respect of other general takaful
certificates issued by him less the amount deducted
under subparagraph (5)(b)(ii) or (7)(b)(ii).
Chargeable income of life fund subject to tax
60AB. The chargeable income in respect of the life fund as determined
under subsections 60(3) and 60(4) is subject to tax as specified under
Part VIII of Schedule 1.
60B. (Deleted by Act 812).
Banking business
60C. Where a person who is resident for the basis year for a year of
assessment carries on a business of banking in Malaysia and
elsewhere, his gross income and adjusted income or adjusted loss for
the basis period for that year of assessment from that business and his
statutory income for that year of assessment from that business shall
be ascertained by reference to his income there from wherever
accruing or derived excluding the gross income, adjusted income or
adjusted loss and statutory income attributable to an offshore business
activity of a licensed Malaysian offshore bank.
60D. (Deleted by Act 600).
60E. (Deleted by Act 624).


Income Tax 221
Investment holding company
60F. (1) Where an investment holding company is resident for the
basis year for a year of assessment there shall be deducted in arriving
at the total income before any deduction falling to be made under
paragraph 44(1)(c) an amount in respect of expenses incurred by that
company in the basis period for that year of assessment, which amount
shall be determined in accordance with the formula—
A x B
4C
where A is the total of the permitted expenses incurred
for that basis period reduced by any receipt of a
similar kind;
B is the gross income consisting of dividend,
interest and rent chargeable to tax for that basis
period; and
C is the aggregate of the gross income consisting
of dividend and interest (whether such dividend
or interest is exempt or not) and rent, and gains
made from the realization of investments for
that basis period:
Provided that—
(a) the amount of deduction to be made shall not exceed five
per cent of the gross income consisting of dividend,
interest and rent for that basis period; and
(b) where, by reason of an absence or insufficiency of
aggregate income for that year of assessment, effect
cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any
deduction falling to be made to the investment holding
company under this section for that year, that deduction
which has not been so made shall not be made to the


investment holding company for any subsequent year of
assessment.
(1A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, where in any
year of assessment income of an investment holding company consists
of—
(a) income from the holding of investment, it shall not be treated
as income from a source consisting of a business; or
(b) income other than income from the holding of
investment, it shall be treated as gains or profits under
paragraph 4(f).
(1B) If it is shown that it has been established as between the
Director General and the company for any tax purposes that the
company is an investment holding company for the basis period for
any year of assessment it shall be presumed until the contrary is proved
that the company is an investment holding company for the purpose of
this Act for the basis period for every subsequent year of assessment.
(1C) This section shall not apply to an investment holding company
referred to in section 60FA.
(2) In this section—
“business of holding of an investment” means business of letting of
property where a company in any year of assessment provides any
maintenance or support services in respect of the property;
“dividend” is deemed to include income distributed by a unit trust;
“investment holding company” means a company whose activities
consist mainly in the holding of investments and not less than eighty
per cent of its gross income other than gross income from a source
consisting of a business of holding of an investment (whether exempt
or not) is derived there from;


Income Tax 223
“permitted expenses” means expenses incurred by an investment
holding company in respect of—
(a) directors’ fees;
(b) wages, salaries and allowances;
(c) management fees;
(d) secretarial, audit and accounting fees, telephone charges,
printing and stationary costs and postage; and
(e) rent and other expenses incidental to the maintenance of
an office,
which are not deductible under subsection 33(1).
Investment holding company listed on Bursa Malaysia
60FA. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Act.
(2) Where an investment holding company is a company resident
for the basis year for a year of assessment and listed on the Bursa
Malaysia in the basis period for that year of assessment, income of that
investment holding company from the holding of investment in that
basis period shall be treated as gross income of that investment holding
company from a source consisting of a business for that year of
assessment.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (2)—
(a) in ascertaining for a year of assessment the adjusted
income of an investment holding company from a source
referred to in that subsection, any amount of deduction
to be made under this Act in arriving at that income shall
only be allowed against the gross income from that
source but—


(i) where in that year of assessment that source does
not produce any income, any deduction in respect
of that source shall be disregarded for the purposes
of this Act; or
(ii) where that amount of deduction exceeds the gross
income from that source for that year of
assessment, the excess shall be disregarded for the
purposes of this Act; and
(b) in ascertaining for a year of assessment the statutory
income of an investment holding company from a source
referred to in that subsection, any allowance for that year
of assessment falling to be made to that company under
Schedule 3 in respect of that source shall only be
available against the adjusted income of that person from
that source and if by reason of an absence or
insufficiency of adjusted income from that source for the
basis period for that year of assessment, effect cannot be
given or be given in full to any allowance for that year
of assessment in relation to that source, that allowance
which has not been so made shall not be made to that
company for subsequent years of assessment.
(4) If it is shown that it has been established between the Director
General and the company for any tax purposes that the company is an
investment holding company for the basis period for any year of
assessment it shall be presumed until the contrary is proved that the
company is an investment holding company for the purpose of this Act
for the basis period for every subsequent year of assessment.
(5) In this section, “investment holding company” has the same
meaning assigned to it under section 60F.
Foreign fund management company
60G. (1) Where a foreign fund management company carries on
business in Malaysia of providing fund management services to


Income Tax 225
foreign and local investors, the income derived from the provision of
fund management services to foreign investors shall be treated as a
separate and distinct business source from that source of income
derived from the provision of fund management services to local
investors.
(2) The chargeable income in relation to the source consisting of the
provision of fund management services to foreign investors for a year
of assessment shall be the statutory income from that source reduced
by any deduction falling to be made pursuant to subsection 43(2)
relating to that source.
(3) The chargeable income in relation to the source or sources other
than the source consisting of the provision of fund management
services to foreign investors for a year of assessment shall be the
statutory income from that source or the aggregate of the statutory
income from each of those sources, as the case may be, reduced by any
deductions falling to be made pursuant to subsections 43(2)
and 44(1):
Provided that in so making the deductions under subsections 43(2)
and 44(1), no regard shall be had to the adjusted loss, if any, from the
source consisting of the provision of fund management services to
foreign investors.
(4) The chargeable income of a foreign fund management company,
resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of assessment in
relation to the source consisting of the provision of fund management
services to foreign investors, after deduction of the tax thereon, shall
be credited to an account to be kept by that company (that account and
that company being referred to as the “exempt account” and the
“relevant company” respectively).
(5) Paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule 7A shall apply as if any reference
in those paragraphs to any income exempted or which has become
exempt under paragraph 3 of that Schedule were a reference to income
credited to the exempt account of the relevant company under
subsection (4).


(6) For the purposes of this section—
“foreign fund management company” means a company
incorporated in Malaysia and licensed under the Capital Markets and
Services Act 2007 [Act 671];
“foreign investors”—
(a) in relation to an individual means individuals who are
not resident and not citizens of Malaysia;
(b) in relation to a company means companies where the
entire issued share capital is beneficially owned, directly
or indirectly by persons who are not resident and not
citizens of Malaysia; and
(c) in relation to a trust fund means trust funds where the
entire interest in the fund is beneficially held, directly or
indirectly by foreign investors, where—
(i) the fund is created outside Malaysia; and
(ii) the trustees of the fund are not resident and not
citizens of Malaysia;
“local investors” are individuals, companies or trust funds that are
not foreign investors.
Closed-end fund company
60H. (1) This section shall apply to a closed-end fund company
resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of assessment.
(2) Where a closed-end fund company receives an amount in
respect of gains from the realization of investments in the basis period
for a year of assessment such amount shall be exempt from tax for that
year of assessment.


Income Tax 227
(3) Paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule 7A shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to the amount exempted under subsection (2) and
paragraph 35 of Schedule 6 (where applicable).
(4) In ascertaining the total income of a closed-end fund company
for the basis period for a year of assessment there shall be deducted
before any deduction falling to be made under paragraph 44(1)(c) an
amount in respect of expenses incurred by that closed-end fund
company during that period, which amount shall be determined in
accordance with the formula—
A x B
4C
where A is the total of the permitted expenses incurred for that
basis period;
B is the gross income consisting of dividend and interest
chargeable to tax for that basis period; and
C is the aggregate of the gross income consisting of
dividend and interest (whether such dividend or interest
is exempt or not) and gains made from the realization
of investments (whether chargeable to tax or not) for
that basis period:
Provided that—
(a) the amount of deduction to be made shall not be less than
ten per cent of the total permitted expenses incurred for
that basis period; and
(b) where, by reason of an absence or insufficiency of
aggregate income for that year of assessment, effect
cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any
deduction falling to be made to the closed-end fund
company under this section for that year, that deduction
which has not been so made shall not be made to the


closed-end fund company for any subsequent year of
assessment.
(5) For the purposes of this section —
“closed-end fund company” means a public limited company
incorporated in Malaysia and approved by the Securities Commission
to engage wholly in the investment of funds in securities;
“dividend” is deemed to include income distributed by a unit trust;
“permitted expenses” means expenses incurred by a closed-end fund
company in respect of —
(a) manager’s remuneration;
(b) maintenance of register of shareholders;
(c) share registration expenses;
(d) secretarial, audit and accounting fees, telephone charges,
printing and stationery costs and postage;
“securities” means debentures, stocks and shares in a public
company or corporation, or bonds of any government or any body
corporate or unincorporate and includes any right or option in respect
thereof and any interest in unit trust schemes.
(6) Sections 33 and 34 shall not apply to a closed-end fund
company.
Company that establishes special purpose vehicle
60I. (1) For the purpose of this Act, where a company establishes a
special purpose vehicle solely for the issuance of sukuk, any source of
the special purpose vehicle and any income from that source shall be
treated as a source and income of that company and such company


Income Tax 229
shall have the right to receive and utilize any proceeds derived from
the issuance of such sukuk.
(2) The special purpose vehicle is exempt from the responsibility of
doing all acts and things required to be done under this Act.
(3) The company that establishes the special purpose vehicle shall
keep and retain in safe custody records and documents in accordance
with sections 82 and 82A for the purpose of ascertaining the chargeable
income of the company from the source referred to in subsection (1).
(3A) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (3), the company
referred to in those sections shall include a unit trust which is approved
by the Securities Commission as Real Estate Investment Trust or
Property Trust Fund.
(4) In this section—
“special purpose vehicle” means a company incorporated under the
*Companies Act 1965 or a company incorporated under the Offshore
Companies Act 1990 which has made an election under section 3A of
the Labuan Offshore Business Activity Tax Act 1990 and established
solely for the purpose of complying with the principles of syariah in
the issuance of sukuk but excludes a company which issues asset-
backed securities in a securitization transaction lodged with the
Securities Commission or approved by the Labuan Financial Services
Authority.
Trusts generally
61. (1) So long as a trust subsists—
(a) the trustees for the time being shall be known as the trust
body and the trust body shall be treated as a person for
*NOTE—The Companies Act 1965 [Act 125] has since been repealed by the Companies Act 2016
[Act 777] which comes into operation on 31 January 2017–see subsection 620(1) of Act 777.


the purposes of all the provisions of this Act except Part
VIII (other than section 122);
(b) for the purposes of this Act—
(i) any source forming part of the property of the
trust;
(ii) any source of a trustee of the trust, being a source
of his by virtue of sections 55 to 58; and
(iii) any income from any such source, shall be treated
as the source and income of the trust body of the
trust:
Provided that in the case of a unit trust, gains arising from
the realization of investments shall not be treated as income
of the trust body of the trust;
(c) subject to subsections (4) and (5), the entitlement of a
beneficiary at any time and from time to time to any
income from the trust shall be deemed to be a source (in
this section and section 62 referred to as his ordinary
source) of his in relation to the trust, and the amount,
ascertained under this section, of any share of his of any
total income of the trust body of the trust for a year of
assessment shall be deemed to be his statutory income
from his ordinary source for that year; and
(d) a beneficiary of the trust shall be assessed and charged
to tax in respect of any income of his from his ordinary
source or from his further source within the meaning of
subsection (5) in relation to the trust:
Provided that paragraphs (c) and (d) and subsection (5) shall not
apply to a person in respect of any amount which by virtue of
paragraph 13(1)(d) falls to be included in the gross income of that
person in respect of gains or profits from an employment.


Income Tax 231
(1A) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1)(c) and (d), a unit holder of a
unit trust shall be assessed and charged to tax in respect of income
equivalent to an amount ascertained by reference to his share of the
total income of the unit trust for a year of assessment, distributed to
him by the unit trust in the basis year for that year of assessment:
Provided that the unit holder shall not be assessed and charged to tax
in respect of any amount distributed by the unit trust out of income
exempt from tax, other than income exempt under section 61A or
paragraph 35A of Schedule 6 on the income of a unit trust in respect of
interest derived from Malaysia and paid or credited to a unit trust that
is a retail money market fund which is distributed to a unit holder other
than an individual, or the gains referred to in the proviso to
paragraph 61(1)(b).
(1B) Any income which is distributed by a unit trust to a unit holder
under subsection (1A) shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia.
(2) The income of the trust body of a trust shall be assessed and
charged to tax separately from the income of a beneficiary from any
source of his in relation to the trust, whether or not that beneficiary is
also a trustee member of that body, and in so assessing and charging
that body by reference to its chargeable income for a year of
assessment regard shall be had to the whole of its total income for that
year, notwithstanding that the amount of a share thereof may be
deemed under this section or section 62 to be statutory income of a
beneficiary:
Provided that, where—
(a) the trust body of a trust is resident for the basis year for
a year of assessment; and
(b) a beneficiary who has a share of the total income of the
trust body for that year of assessment is resident for the
basis year for that year of assessment,


the Director General may, in ascertaining the chargeable income of the
trust body for that year of assessment, deduct from that total income
that share of that beneficiary.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, a trust body
shall be regarded as resident for the basis year for a year of assessment
if, but only if, any trustee member of that body is resident for that basis
year:
Provided that where—
(a) the trust was created outside Malaysia by a person or
persons who were not citizens;
(b) the income of that trust body for that basis year is wholly
derived from outside Malaysia;
(c) the trust is administered for the whole of that basis year
outside Malaysia; and
(d) at least one-half of the number of the member trustees
are not resident in Malaysia for that basis year,
that trust body shall not be regarded as resident in Malaysia for that
basis year.
(4) Subject to sections 62 and 63, and whether or not the trust body
of a trust is resident for the basis year for a year of assessment—
(a) where throughout the basis year a beneficiary of the trust
was entitled to the whole of the distributable income
from the trust for that basis year, the amount of the total
income of the trust body for that year of assessment shall
be deemed to be the amount of the beneficiary’s share of
that total income;
(b) where throughout that basis year a beneficiary of the
trust was entitled to a particular fraction of that
distributable income, an amount found by applying that


Income Tax 233
fraction to that total income shall be deemed to be the
amount of his share of that total income;
(c) where the trust subsists throughout that basis year and
during that basis year a beneficiary of the trust is entitled
to the whole or a fraction of the distributable income
from the trust for any part or parts of that basis year—
(i) that total income, treated as if it had accrued
evenly from day to day over that basis year, shall
with respect to any such part be divided in the
proportion which the length of that part bears to
the length of that basis year and so much of the
amount of that total income as is thus found to be
apportioned to that part is referred to in this
paragraph in relation to that part as the apportioned
sum;
(ii) if the beneficiary was entitled to the whole of the
distributable income from the trust for such a part,
the apportioned sum, in relation to that part, shall
be deemed to be the amount of his share (or the
amount of part of his share, as the case may
require) of that total income;
(iii) if the beneficiary was entitled to a particular
fraction of the distributable income from the trust
for such a part, an amount found by applying that
fraction to the apportioned sum, in relation to that
part, shall be deemed to be the amount of his share
(or the amount of part of his share, as the case may
require) of that total income; and
(iv) where two or more parts of his share of that total
income have been so ascertained, the aggregate of
the amounts of those parts shall be deemed to be
the amount of his share of that total income;


(d) where the trust was not subsisting throughout that basis
year, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (and subsection (7))
shall have effect as if references therein to that basis year
were references to a period consisting of the whole of the
time during which the trust was subsisting in that basis
year; and
(e) any amount deemed by virtue of this subsection to be a
beneficiary’s share of that total income shall be deemed
to be derived from Malaysia.
(5) Subject to sections 62 and 63, if the total of—
(a) all sums received in Malaysia from the trust body of a
trust by a beneficiary (being sums of an income nature
in his hands) in the basis year for a year of assessment;
and
(b) all sums received by him outside Malaysia from the trust
body of the trust in any year (being sums of an income
nature in his hands) and remitted to Malaysia in the basis
year for a year of assessment,
exceeds the amount of his statutory income from his ordinary source
in relation to the trust for that year of assessment—
(i) he shall, in respect of that excess, be deemed to
have a source (in this subsection referred to as his
further source) in relation to the trust; and
(ii) the amount of that excess shall be deemed to be his
statutory income from his further source for that
particular year of assessment:
Provided that, if the Director General is satisfied that a sum equal to
any part of that excess may, to the best of his judgment be regarded as
an ingredient of the beneficiary’s statutory income from his ordinary
source in relation to the trust for any preceding year of assessment, the
beneficiary’s statutory income from his further source for that


Income Tax 235
particular year of assessment shall be reduced by the amount of that
sum.
(6) (Deleted by Act A226).
(7) Where any part of the income from a trust for the basis year for
a year of assessment is subject to a trust for accumulation, any
reference in this section to the total income of the trust body of that
trust for that year of assessment (being a reference made in connection
with a reference to the distributable income from the trust for that basis
year) shall be construed as a reference to a sum which bears the same
proportion to that total income as that distributable income bears to the
aggregate of—
(a) that distributable income; and
(b) that part of the income from the trust which is subject to
the trust for accumulation.
(8) Paragraph (1)(a) and subsection (3) shall apply where there is
only one trustee as they apply where there are two or more trustees,
and references to a trust body in this Act shall be construed
accordingly.
(9) In this Act—
(a) a reference to income from a source of a trust includes a
reference to any income subject to the trust; and
(b) a reference to sums received or to income received by a
beneficiary of a trust includes a reference to sums or
income disbursed by the trust body of the trust on his
behalf or for his benefit.


Exemption of Real Estate Investment Trust or Property Trust
Fund
61A. (1) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment ninety per
cent or more of the total income of the unit trust is distributed to the
unit holder, the total income of the unit trust for that year of assessment
shall be exempt from tax.
(2) In this section, “unit trust” means a unit trust which is approved
by the Securities Commission as Real Estate Investment Trust or
Property Trust Fund, and listed on Bursa Malaysia.
Discretionary trusts
62. (1) Where there is a discretionary trust, section 61 shall apply to
the trust but shall be modified in its application by the following
subsections.
(2) Subject to the following subsections, whether or not the trust
body of discretionary trust is resident for the basis year for a year of
assessment:
(a) subject to paragraph (b), the total of all sums received in
Malaysia by a particular beneficiary of the trust (being
sums of an income nature in his hands) in that basis year
from the trust body of the trust or the total income of that
body for that year of assessment, whichever is the less,
shall be deemed to be the amount of that particular
beneficiary’s share of that total income; and
(b) where—
(i) that particular beneficiary is one of a class of
beneficiaries of the trust;
(ii) that particular beneficiary has received in
Malaysia and any other beneficiary or
beneficiaries of that class has or have received in


Income Tax 237
Malaysia any sum or sums of that nature in that
basis year from the trust body of the trust; and
(iii) the aggregate of all sums so received exceeds the
total income of that body for that year of
assessment,
paragraph (a) shall not apply to that particular
beneficiary in relation to that discretionary trust for that
year of assessment and a sum bearing the same
proportion to that total income as the total of all sums
so received by that particular beneficiary bears to that
aggregate shall be deemed to be the amount of that
particular beneficiary’s share of that total income.
(3) Where a trust is such that with respect to some of the
distributable income from the trust for the basis year for a year of
assessment (in this subsection referred to as the discretionary portion)
a discretionary power of the trustees applies and with respect to some
of the distributable income from that trust for that basis year (in this
subsection referred to as the non-discretionary portion) either a
beneficiary is entitled to the whole thereof or there are beneficiaries
entitled to particular fractions thereof—
(a) the total income of the trust body of the trust for that year
of assessment shall be divided into a discretionary part
and a non-discretionary part, the amount of the
discretionary part being a sum which bears the same
proportion to that total income as the discretionary
portion bears to the distributable income from the trust
for that basis year and the amount of the non-
discretionary part being a sum which bears the same
proportion to that total income as the non-discretionary
portion bears to the distributable income from the trust
for that basis year;
(b) subject to paragraph (c)—


(i) subsection (2) shall apply in relation to the trust
body and that part of the trust relating to the
discretionary portion as if the amount of the
discretionary part were the total income of the trust
body for that year of assessment;
(ii) in the application of subsection 61(5) in relation to
the trust body and that part of the trust relating to
the discretionary portion, the amount of the
discretionary part shall be treated as the total
income of the trust body for that year of
assessment; and
(iii) in the application of subsections 61(4) and (5) in
relation to the trust body and that part of the trust
relating to the non-discretionary portion, the
amount of the non-discretionary part shall be
treated as the total income of the trust body for that
year of assessment;
(c) where in consequence of the application of paragraph (b)
a beneficiary of the trust has a share of the discretionary
part and a share of the non-discretionary part, the
aggregate of the amounts of those shares shall be deemed
to be the amount of his statutory income from his
ordinary source in relation to the trust for that year of
assessment, and if the total of—
(i) all sums received in Malaysia from the trust body
of the trust by him (being sums of an income
nature in his hands) in the basis year for a year of
assessment; and
(ii) all sums received by him outside Malaysia from
the trust body of the trust in any year (being sums
of an income nature in his hands) and remitted to
Malaysia in the basis year for a year of assessment,


Income Tax 239
exceeds that aggregate, that excess shall be deemed
to be his further source within the meaning of
subsection 61(5).
(4) Where subsection (2) or (3) applies in relation to a trust (in this
subsection referred to as the principal trust) and a year of assessment,
then, if any part of the income from the principal trust for the basis year
for that year of assessment is subject to a trust for accumulation, the
reference in subsection (2) or paragraph (3)(a) to total income shall be
construed as a reference to a sum which bears the same proportion to
that total income as the part of the income from the principal trust not
so subject to that trust for accumulation bears to the income from the
principal trust.
(5) (Deleted by Act A226).
Trust annuities
63. (1) This section shall apply where a person is entitled to an
annuity payable under the terms of a trust (that annuity, that trust and
the trust body of that trust being in this section referred to as the
annuity, the trust and the trust body respectively).
(2) The amount of the annuity payable for the basis year (or for a
part of the basis year) for a year of assessment shall be ascertained
whenever necessary by applying subsection 19(3) as if references
therein to Chapter 4 were references to this section and references to
the basis period (or to a part thereof) for a year of assessment were
references to the basis year (or to a part thereof) for a year of
assessment; and, where two or more amounts are payable in respect of
the annuity for the basis year (or for a part of the basis year) for a year
of assessment, then, in the application of this section to that annuity,
any reference to an amount payable in respect of that annuity shall be
construed as a reference to the aggregate of those amounts.
(3) Where the whole of the gross income of the trust body from each
of its sources for the basis period for a year of assessment is derived


from Malaysia or the trust body is resident for the basis year for that
year of assessment—
(a) the amount payable in respect of the annuity for that
basis year shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia
whether or not the trust body has any total income for
that year of assessment; and
(b) in ascertaining the total income (if any) of the trust
body for that year of assessment that amount shall be
deducted after any deduction falling to be made under
paragraph 44(1)(a) or (b) and before any deduction
falling to be made under paragraph 44(1)(c).
(4) Where—
(a) the trust body is not resident for the basis year for a year
of assessment; and
(b) either—
(i) in ascertaining the trust body’s total income for
that year of assessment regard is to be had only to
one source, and the gross income for the basis
period for that year of assessment from that source
is derived partly from Malaysia and partly from
outside Malaysia; or
(ii) the trust body’s gross income for the basis period
for that year of assessment is derived as to one of
its sources wholly or partly from Malaysia and as
to another of its sources wholly or partly from
outside Malaysia,
subsection (5) shall apply for ascertaining the total income (if any) of
the trust body for that year of assessment.
(5) Where this subsection applies in relation to a year of assessment,
the amount payable in respect of the annuity for the basis year for that


Income Tax 241
year of assessment shall be deducted after any deduction falling to be
made under paragraph 44(1)(a) or (b) and before any deduction falling
to be made under paragraph 44(1)(c) and—
(a) if the whole of that amount is so deducted, that amount
shall be deemed to be derived from Malaysia;
(b) if that amount exceeds what would be the total income
(if any) of the trust body for that year of assessment
ascertained without any deduction being made in respect
of that amount, so much of that amount as equals what
would be that total income as so ascertained shall be
deemed to be derived from Malaysia.
(6) Where any amount is payable in respect of a joint annuity under
the terms of the trust, there shall for the purposes of this section be
deemed to be payable to each of the joint annuitants with respect to
that amount a sum arrived at by dividing that amount by the number of
joint annuitants.
(7) Where two or more annuities are payable under the terms of the
trust and there is insufficient income to allow, in ascertaining the total
income (if any) of the trust body of the trust, a full deduction of all
amounts payable in respect of all those annuities, the Director General
shall give such directions as are necessary for ascertaining how much
of the amount payable in respect of each of those annuities shall be
deemed to be derived from Malaysia for the purposes of
paragraph 5(b).
(8) In this section “annuity” includes any pension or other
periodical payment to which paragraph 4(e) applies.
Special deduction for qualifying capital expenditure
63A. (1) In ascertaining the statutory income of a unit trust from a
source consisting of the derivation of rent from the letting of real property
for a year of assessment, there shall be deducted from the adjusted


income from that source for that year of assessment an allowance made
under subsection (2) in respect of qualifying capital expenditure.
(2) Where a unit trust has, for the purposes of deriving rent from the
letting of real property, incurred qualifying capital expenditure in
relation to an asset and at the end of the basis period for a year of
assessment the unit trust was the owner of the asset and the asset was
in use for that purpose, there shall be made to the unit trust in relation
to that source for that year an allowance equal to one tenth of that
expenditure:
Provided that where, by reason of an absence or insufficiency of
adjusted income from that source for the basis period for that year of
assessment, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any
allowance falling to be made for that year in relation to that source,
that allowance which has not been so made shall not be made to the
unit trust for any subsequent year of assessment.
(3) Where at the end of the basis period for any year of assessment
the residual expenditure in relation to an asset in respect of which
qualifying capital expenditure has been incurred is zero, or the asset is
no longer owned or in use by the unit trust, no allowance shall be made
to the unit trust for that year of assessment and subsequent years of
assessment.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (2), qualifying capital
expenditure shall be deemed to have been incurred on the day on which
the machinery or plant is capable of being used for the purposes of
deriving rent from the letting of real property.
(5) For the purposes of this section—
“qualifying capital expenditure” in relation to an asset is capital
expenditure incurred on the provision of machinery or plant used for
the purposes of deriving rent from the letting of real property,
including—
(a) expenditure incurred on the alteration of an existing
building for the purpose of installing that machinery or


Income Tax 243
plant and other expenditure incurred incidentally to the
installation thereof provided that such expenditure does
not exceed seventy-five per cent of the aggregate of itself
and any other expenditure (being qualifying capital
expenditure); and
(b) expenditure incurred on preparing or levelling land in
order to prepare a site for the installation of that
machinery or plant provided that such expenditure does
not exceed ten per cent of the aggregate of itself and any
other expenditure (being qualifying capital expenditure);
“residual expenditure” at any date in relation to an asset in respect of
which qualifying capital expenditure has been incurred by a unit trust
shall be the total qualifying capital expenditure incurred on the
provision of the asset before that date reduced by the allowance falling
to be made in relation to that asset for any year of assessment before
that date.
(6) This section shall not apply to a unit trust referred to in
subsection 63C(5).
Special deduction for expenses
63B. (1) In ascertaining the total income of a unit trust for the basis
period for a year of assessment, there shall be deducted before any
deduction falling to be made under paragraph 44(1)(c) an amount in
respect of expenses incurred by that unit trust during that period, which
amount shall be determined in accordance with the formula—
A X B
4C
where A is the total of the permitted expenses incurred for that
basis period;
B is the gross income consisting of dividend, interest and
rent chargeable to tax for that basis period; and


C is the aggregate of the gross income consisting of
dividend and interest (whether such dividend or interest
is exempt or not) and rent, and gains made from the
realization of investments (whether chargeable to tax or
not) for that basis period:
Provided that—
(a) the amount of deduction to be made shall not be less than
ten per cent of the total permitted expenses incurred for
that basis period; and
(b) where, by reason of an absence or insufficiency of
aggregate income for that year of assessment, effect
cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any deduction
falling to be made to the unit trust under this section for
that year that deduction which has not been so made shall
not be made to the unit trust for any subsequent year of
assessment.
(2) For the purposes of this section—
“dividend” is deemed to include income distributed by a unit trust;
“permitted expenses” means expenses incurred by the unit trust in
respect of—
(a) manager’s remuneration;
(b) maintenance of register of unit holders;
(c) share registration expenses;
(d) secretarial, audit and accounting fees, telephone charges,
printing and stationery costs and postage,
which are not deductible under subsection 33(1).


Income Tax 245
(3) This section shall not apply to a unit trust referred to in
subsection 63C(5).
Special treatment on rent from the letting of real property of a
Real Estate Investment Trust or Property Trust Fund
63C. (1) This section shall apply notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Act.
(2) Where in the year of assessment, income of a unit trust consists
of a rent from the letting of real property, the amount of the rent shall
be treated as gross income of a unit trust from a source consisting of a
business for that year of assessment.
(3) In ascertaining, for a year of assessment, the adjusted income of
a unit trust from a source referred to in subsection (2), any deductions
to be made under this Act in arriving to that income, in respect of that
source for the basis period for that year of assessment shall only be
allowed against the gross income from that source but—
(a) where the amount of the deduction exceeds the gross income
from that source for that year of assessment, the excess shall
be disregarded for the purposes of this Act; and
(b) where that source does not produce any income, the
deduction from the gross income of that unit trust from
that source of income shall not be allowed.
(4) In ascertaining, for a year of assessment, the statutory income
of a unit trust from a source referred to in subsection (2), any
allowances for that year of assessment under Schedule 3 in respect of
that source shall only be available against the adjusted income of that
source and if by reason of an absence or insufficiency of adjusted
income from that source for the basis period for that year of
assessment, effect cannot be given or be given in full to any allowance
for that year of assessment in relation to that source, that allowance
which has not been so made shall not be made to the unit trust for any
subsequent years of assessment.


(5) For the purposes of this section, “unit trust” means a unit trust
which is approved by the Securities Commission Malaysia as Real
Estate Investment Trust or Property Trust Fund.
Income of a unit trust from the letting of real property is not
income from a business
63D. Subject to section 63C but notwithstanding any other provisions
of this Act, income of a unit trust which consists of rent from the letting
of real property shall not be treated as income from a source consisting
of a business.
Estates under administration
64. (1) For the purposes of this Act, any source forming part of the
estate of a deceased individual and any income from that source arising
after the day of the death of that individual shall be treated as the source
and income of the executor of that individual.
(2) The chargeable income of the executor of the estate of a
deceased individual for a year of assessment shall be ascertained
by reference to the gross income from those sources for the
appropriate basis period determined in accordance with the
provisions of sections 3 and 4.
(3) Where an annuity is payable for the basis year for a year of
assessment by an executor of a deceased individual, then—
(a) in ascertaining the total income of the executor for that
year of assessment the amount of the annuity so payable
shall be deducted after any deduction falling to be made
under paragraph 44(1)(a) or (b) and before any
deduction falling to be made under paragraph 44(1)(c);
(b) the annuity so payable shall be regarded as income
within the meaning of paragraph 4(e) in the hands of the
annuitant; and


Income Tax 247
(c) the annuity shall be deemed to be derived from
Malaysia.
(4) In the case of an estate of an individual who was domiciled in
Malaysia at the time of his death, the deduction allowed for any year
of assessment by section 46 (but no other deduction under Chapter 7)
shall be made from the total income of the executor for that year
whether or not the executor is an individual and whether or not the
executor is resident for the basis year for that year.
(5) Subject to subsection (3), payments made by the executor of a
deceased individual to a beneficiary of the estate of that individual and
received by him as a beneficiary shall not be regarded in his hands as
income for the purposes of this Act.
(6) For the purposes of subsection (3), subsection 63(2) shall apply
to annuities affected by this section as it applies to annuities affected
by the said section 63.
Settlements
65. (1) Subject to this section, where—
(a) by virtue or in consequence (whether directly or
indirectly) of any settlement and during the life of the
settlor, any income from a source or assets representing
income from a source will or may become payable or
applicable in the basis period for a year of assessment to
or for the benefit of any relative of the settlor; and
(b) at the commencement of that year of assessment that
relative is unmarried and has not attained the age of
twenty-one years,
the income or assets shall be deemed to be income of the settlor and
not income of any other person.


(2) Subject to this section, if and so long as the terms of any
settlement are such that—
(a) any person has or may have power, whether immediately
or in the future, and whether with or without the consent
of any other person, to revoke or otherwise determine the
settlement or any provision thereof; and
(b) in the event of the exercise of the power, the settlor or a
wife or husband of the settlor will or may become
beneficially entitled to the whole or any part of the
property then comprised in the settlement, or of the
income arising from the whole or any part of the
property so comprised,
all income arising under the settlement from the property comprised in
the settlement shall be deemed to be income of the settlor and, subject
to subsection 45(2), not income of any other person:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply by reason only of the
fact that the settlor or a wife or husband of the settlor will or may
become beneficially entitled to any income or property relating to the
interest of any beneficiary under the settlement in the event of that
beneficiary predeceasing him or her, as the case may be.
(3) Subject to this section, where in the basis year for any year of
assessment the settlor in relation to a settlement or any relative of the
settlor or any company with respect to which the settlor or any of his
relatives has control makes use for his or its own purposes, whether by
borrowing or otherwise, of any income arising or of any accumulated
income which has arisen under the settlement (being income to which
he or it is not entitled thereunder), the amount of that income or
accumulated income so made use of shall be deemed to be income of
the settlor for that basis year and not the income of any other person;
and, where any other person is or was beneficially entitled to that
income, there shall be made to that other person such repayments of
any tax paid by him in respect of that income as are made necessary
by the operation of this subsection.


Income Tax 249
(4) Where, in relation to any settlement to which this section
applies, in consequence of any provision of this section (and, where
applicable, any other provision of this Act) any tax is charged on or
paid by the settlor, he shall be entitled to recover from any trustee of
the settlement in receipt of income arising whether directly or
indirectly by virtue or in consequence of the settlement (or from any
person in receipt of any such income which is deemed to be income of
the settlor under this section) the amount of the tax so paid by him, and
for that purpose to require the Director General to furnish a certificate
specifying the amount of tax so paid; and any certificate so furnished
shall be conclusive evidence of the facts appearing therein.
(5) Where any income or assets representing income are deemed to
be income of the settlor and not income of any other person under the
foregoing subsections, then, subject to subsection (6)—
(a) in a case where the terms of the settlement are such that
there is a trust so that the income or assets in question
are income or assets of a person having a beneficial
interest in that trust, the amount of the income so deemed
to be income of the settlor shall be taken to be—
(i) the amount of what would have been, but for this
section, the statutory income of that other person
from any property comprised in the settlement or,
where that other person is not resident, what would
have been his statutory income from any such
property if he had been resident for all relevant
basis years; or
(ii) where subsection (3) is applicable, such an amount
as the Director General having regard to all the
circumstances may direct;
(b) in any other case, the amount of the income so deemed
to be income of the settlor shall be taken to be—
(i) the amount of what would have been, but for this
section, the statutory income of that other person


from any property comprised in the settlement or,
where that other person is not resident, what would
have been his statutory income from any such
property if he had been resident for all relevant
basis years; or
(ii) where subsection (3) is applicable, such an amount
as the Director General having regard to all the
circumstances may direct,
and in any case, the income so deemed to be that of the settlor shall be
deemed to be derived from such place and source as the Director
General having regard to all the circumstances may direct and to be
statutory income of the settlor.
(6) Notwithstanding subsection (5), in any case to which
subsection (2) applies in relation to a settlement, the statutory income
from each source of the trust body of the trust the subject of the
settlement shall be deemed to be statutory income of the settlor and to
be derived from such place and source of the settlor as the Director
General having regard to all the circumstances may direct.
(7) If any question arises as to the amount of any payment of income
or as to any apportionment of income or of statutory income under this
section, that question shall be determined by the Director General and
no appeal shall lie from his decision.
(8) This section shall apply to every settlement wherever it was
made or entered into and whether it was made or entered into before
or after the commencement of this Act.
(9) In the case of any settlement where there are two or more
settlors, this section shall have effect in relation to each settlor as if he
were the only settlor and in any such case—
(a) references in this section to the property comprised in
the settlement include, in relation to any settlor, only
property originating from that settlor, and references in
this section to income in relation to any settlement or


Income Tax 251
arising under the settlement include, in relation to any
settlor, only income originating from that settlor;
(b) references in this subsection to property originating from
a settlor are references to—
(i) property which that settlor has provided directly or
indirectly for the purposes of the settlement;
(ii) property representing property so provided; and
(iii) so much of any property representing both
property so provided and other property as on a
just apportionment represents the property so
provided; and
(c) references in this subsection to income originating from
a settlor are references to—
(i) income from property originating from that settlor;
and
(ii) income provided directly or indirectly by that
settlor.
(10) In this section any reference to property comprised in a
settlement includes a reference to property representing property so
comprised and any reference to property representing other property
includes a reference to property representing accumulated income
from that other property.
(11) In this section—
“relative” means a child of the settlor (including a stepchild of the
settlor and a child of whom the settlor has the custody or whom he
maintains wholly or partly at his own expense), a child adopted by the
settlor or the husband or wife of the settlor in accordance with any law,
and any person who is a wife, grandchild, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
nephew, niece or cousin of the settlor;


“settlement” includes any disposition, trust, covenant, arrangement
or agreement and any transfer of assets or income, but does not
include—
(a) a settlement which in the opinion of the Director General
is made for valuable and adequate consideration;
(b) a settlement resulting from an order of a court; or
(c) any agreement made by an employer to pay to an
employee or to the widow or widower or any relative or
dependant of an employee after his death such
remuneration, pension or lump sum as in the opinion of
the Director General is fair and reasonable;
“settlor”, in relation to a settlement, includes any person by whom
the settlement was made or entered into directly or indirectly, and any
person who was provided or undertaken to provide funds or credit
directly or indirectly for the purpose of the settlement or has made with
any other person a reciprocal arrangement for that other person to make
or enter into the settlement.
Co-operative Societies
65A. In arriving at the chargeable income of a co-operative society for
a year of assessment, there shall be deducted from the total income for
that year—
(a) such sum as has been transferred or paid during the basis
period for that year to a statutory reserve fund or to any
educational institution or co-operative organization
established for the furtherance of co-operative
principles, or to both, or to a Co-operative Education
Trust Fund or to a Co-operative Development Trust
Fund, as may be required under the provisions of any
written law relating to the registration of co-operative
societies in Malaysia:


Income Tax 253
Provided that the maximum sum to be deducted shall
not exceed one-fourth of the audited net profits for that
basis period of such co-operative society; and
(b) an amount equal to eight per cent (or such percentage as
may be prescribed) of the members’ funds (as defined in
subparagraph 12(2) of Part I of Schedule 6) as at the first
day of the basis period for the year of assessment.
(2) (Deleted by Act 451).
Incentive scheme
65B. (1) Where a person referred to in paragraph 6(1)(m) carries on
a business in Malaysia in respect of a source consisting of a qualifying
activity under an incentive scheme approved by the Minister, the
business shall be treated as a separate and distinct business and source
of that person.
(2) The chargeable income of a person in respect of the source
consisting of the qualifying activity referred to in subsection (1), for a
year of assessment shall be the statutory income from that source
reduced by any amount of deduction falling to be made pursuant to
subsection 43(2) relating to that source and so much of the amount
which has not been deducted from that statutory income for the year
of assessment the incentive scheme ends shall only be deductible in
accordance with subsection 43(2) for a period of seven consecutive
years of assessment.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the period of seven
consecutive years of assessment shall commence immediately
following that year of assessment the incentive scheme ends and any
amount of balance of the amount referred to in that subsection which
is not deductible at the end of that period shall be disregarded for the
purposes of this Act.
(4) The chargeable income of a person in respect of the source or
sources other than the source consisting of the qualifying activity


referred to in subsection (1) for a year of assessment shall be the
statutory income from that source or the aggregate of the statutory
income from each of those sources, as the case may be, reduced by any
deduction falling to be made pursuant to subsections 43(2) and 44(1):
Provided that in so making the deductions under subsections 43(2)
and 44(1), no regard shall be had to the adjusted loss, if any, from the
source consisting of such qualifying activity.
(5) Where the person referred to in subsection (1) fails to comply
with the conditions prescribed by the Minister under Part XVII of
Schedule 1, the Director General may at any time within five years
after the expiration of the year of assessment for which the rate
prescribed by the Minister under Part XVII of Schedule 1 was applied,
make such additional assessments upon that person as appears to the
Director General to be necessary in order to counteract any benefit
obtained under Part XVII of Schedule 1.
(6) The person who carries on a business in respect of the source
consisting of a qualifying activity referred to in subsection (1) shall
maintain a separate account for the income derived from such
qualifying activity for the basis period for each year of assessment.
PART IV
PERSONS CHARGEABLE
Personal chargeability: general principle
66. Where under this Act the income of any person is assessable and
chargeable to tax, that person shall, subject to this Part, be the person
assessable and chargeable to tax in respect of that income.
Tax identification number
66A. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the following person shall have
a tax identification number:


Income Tax 255
(a) any person who is assessable and chargeable to tax under
this Act;
(b) any person who is required under this Act to furnish a
return; or
(c) any person who is a citizen aged eighteen years old and
above.
(2) The tax identification number referred to in subsection (1) shall
be assigned by the Director General as he may determine.
(3) Any person who has been assigned a reference number by the
Director General in exercising his powers and functions under this Act
on or before 1 January 2022 is deemed to have been assigned a tax
identification number under this Act and the reference number shall be
the tax identification number of that person.
Vicarious responsibility and chargeability
67. (1) Subject to this Part, the following subsections shall apply
where by or under any of the following sections of this Part a person
(in this section referred to as the representative)—
(a) is appointed to be the agent of any other person;
(b) is assessable and chargeable to tax on behalf of any other
person; or
(c) is a person in whose name another person is assessable
and chargeable to tax,
any such other person being in this section referred to as the principal.
(2) The representative may require any person (including the
principal, in so far as he is capable of complying with the requisition)
who is in receipt or control of any income of the principal, and any


person by whom any income is paid or payable to the principal, to
supply to the representative full particulars of the income and any
expenses connected therewith.
(3) Where the representative is assessable and chargeable to tax on
behalf of the principal, the representative shall be assessable and
chargeable to tax in like manner and to the like amount as the principal
would be assessed and charged to tax; and, where the principal is
assessable and chargeable in the name of the representative, the
principal shall be so assessable and chargeable in like manner and to
the like amount as he would be assessed and charged to tax if he were
assessable and chargeable in his own name.
(4) The representative shall be responsible for doing all such acts
and things as are required by or by virtue of this Act to be done by him
as representative or by the principal for the purposes of this Act, and
in particular for the payment of any tax due from him as representative
or from the principal and for the payment of any debt so due to the
Government under section 107A, 109, 109A or 109B; and, in default of
payment, any such tax or debt (together with any penalty to which he
as representative or the principal is or would be liable in respect of the
default) shall be recoverable from the representative either as such or
as if he were the principal, as the case may be:
Provided that the representative shall not be required to pay any such
tax, debt or penalty (or any other penalty incurred by the principal)
otherwise than from the accessible moneys.
(4A) For the purposes of subsection (4), where a representative is a
person appointed as an agent under section 68, the Director General
may, by way of a notice in writing, require the representative to remit
to him any accessible moneys for the purpose of payment of any tax
due from the principal or for any debt so due referred to in that
subsection, notwithstanding that no assessment in respect of such tax
has been made in the name of the representative:
Provided that the accessible moneys shall not include any moneys
held by the representative in his custody and control on behalf of the
principal.


Income Tax 257
(5) Where by or by virtue of this Act anything is to be made or
served on or given or done to the principal for the purposes of this Act,
in lieu thereof the same may be made or served on or given or done to
the representative:
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall make the representative
liable to be convicted of an offence committed by the principal in
which the representative had no part.
(6) The representative—
(a) may retain out of the accessible moneys so much as is
necessary to pay any tax or penalty, or any debt of the
kind referred to in subsection (4) due from him as
representative or from the principal; and
(b) shall be and is hereby indemnified against all persons
whatsoever for any payments made by him as
representative in pursuance of this Act.
(7) In this section “the accessible moneys”, in relation to the
representative and the principal, means any moneys (including any
pension and any salary, wages or other remuneration) which—
(a) from time to time are due from the representative to the
principal or are held by the representative in his custody
and control on behalf of the principal; or
(b) being then moneys of or due to the principal, are
obtainable on demand by the representative.
Power to appoint agent
68. (1) The Director General may, if he thinks fit, by notice in
writing appoint any person to be the agent of any other person for all
or any of the purposes of this Act; and, where any person is so
appointed for all those purposes, he shall be assessable and chargeable
to tax on behalf of that other person.


(2) An appointment made under subsection (l) may be revoked by
the Director General at any time.
(3) Where a person appointed under subsection (l) to be the agent
of another person is aggrieved by the appointment, he may within
thirty days after the service on him of the notice of appointment appeal
under section 99 as if the notice of appointment served upon him were
a notice of assessment and the provisions of this Act relating to appeals
shall apply accordingly with any necessary modifications.
(4) Where any income on which tax is chargeable (or the source of
any such income) is under the direction and control of a court in
Malaysia and the court appoints a receiver therefor—
(a) the receiver so long as his appointment subsists shall be
deemed to have been appointed under subsection (1)
(without the right of appeal conferred by subsection (3))
to be the agent of the court as regards that income or
source for all the purposes of this Act; and
(b) if the source of that income is vested in the court, the
registrar or other appropriate officer of the court shall be
treated for the purposes of this Act as the person entitled
to that income.
(5) The following sections of this Part shall be without prejudice to
the generality of subsection (1).
Incapacitated persons
69. (1) Where a person lawfully having the direction, control or
management of any property or concern on behalf of an incapacitated
person receives the gross income of that incapacitated person from all
sources for the appropriate basis periods for a year of assessment, that
first-mentioned person shall be assessable and chargeable to tax in
respect of that income on behalf of that incapacitated person.


Income Tax 259
(2) Where there is no person assessable and chargeable to tax
by virtue of subsection (1) in respect of the income of an
incapacitated person, the Director General may appoint any person
under subsection 68(1) to be the agent of that incapacitated person
for all the purposes of this Act.
(3) Without prejudice to subsection (1) or (2), if an incapacitated
person assessable and chargeable to tax is a minor, the minor’s parent
or guardian (or any person standing as regards the minor in a
relationship corresponding to that of parent of guardian) shall be
assessable and chargeable to tax on behalf of the minor.
(4) Nothing in this section shall prevent a minor being directly
assessable and chargeable to tax.
(5) Paragraph 23(c) shall apply whenever appropriate in relation to
the reference to gross income in this section.
Non-residents
70. (1) A person who is not resident for the basis year for a year of
assessment shall be assessable and chargeable to tax for that year of
assessment either directly or in the name of any attorney, factor, agent,
receiver or manager of his (whether or not the attorney, factor, agent,
receiver or manager has the receipt of any income of that non-resident
person):
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall render any person
assessable or chargeable in the name of a broker, a general commission
agent or any other agent where the broker or agent is not either—
(a) carrying on with the authority of that person the regular
agency of that person; or
(b) a person assessable and chargeable as if he were an agent
by virtue of section 141 on income in respect of gains or
profits arising from sales or transactions carried out
through himself as broker or agent.


(2) Where a partner in a partnership is not resident for the basis year
for a year of assessment, his income ascertained under the appropriate
provisions of sections 55 to 59 in relation to the partnership shall be
assessable and chargeable to tax for that year of assessment in the name
of—
(a) the partnership (which shall be regarded as a person to
the extent necessary to give effect to this subsection);
(b) any partner who is resident for that basis year; or
(c) any agent of the partnership in Malaysia,
and the tax charged thereon shall be recoverable by all the means
provided by this Act out of the assets of the partnership.
Masters of ships and captains of aircraft
71. The master of any ship and the captain of any aircraft owned or
chartered by a person who is assessable and chargeable to tax in
consequence of the application of section 54 shall (though not to the
exclusion of any other agent) be deemed to be the agent of that person
and shall be assessable and chargeable to tax on behalf of that person.
Hindu joint families
72. The income of a Hindu joint family (and any income of the
family’s manager or karta in his capacity as such, being income by
virtue of sections 55 to 59) shall be assessable and chargeable on the
family’s manager or karta, who shall accordingly be assessable and
chargeable to tax on behalf of the family.
Trustees
73. (1) The income of the trust body of a trust shall be assessable and
chargeable to tax on the trust body (which may be given by the Director


Income Tax 261
General a suitable designation for the purpose) and, so long as the
trustees for the time being remain members of the trust body they shall
(whether or not, in the case of each trustee, he was a member of the
trust body when any particular responsibility or obligation under this
Act first arose) jointly and severally be subject to all the liabilities to
which they would be subject under section 67 if the trust body were
the principal within the meaning of that section and each trustee were
the representative within that meaning.
(2) A trustee who vacates his office shall cease to have
responsibility under subsection (1):
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall relieve any person from
responsibility for a criminal or negligent act, whenever committed.
Executors
74. (1) Where an individual dies in the basis year for a year of
assessment, his executors shall be assessable and chargeable to tax for
that year of assessment, for the following year of assessment and,
whenever necessary, for any previous year of assessment in respect of
the chargeable income of that individual for any such year of
assessment; and, where they are so assessable and chargeable, they
shall be assessable and chargeable to tax in like manner and to the like
amount as the individual would be assessed and charged to tax if he
had not died.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)—
(a) the reference therein to the chargeable income of any
individual for any year of assessment shall be taken to
be such chargeable income for that year as he would
have had if he had not died in respect of any income of
his arising before his death and in respect of any income
received by his executors which if he had not died and if
it had been received by him (at the time it was received
by his executors) would have been taken into account in
arriving at that last-mentioned chargeable income; and


(b) all rights and duties which would have attached to him
with respect to that last-mentioned chargeable income as
he would have so had shall pass to his executors.
(3) Any assessment or additional assessment to be made in
consequence of the foregoing subsections shall be made not later than
the end of the third year of assessment following the year of assessment
in the basis year for which—
(a) the Director General is informed of the death of the
individual by the executor referred to under
subsection (1) in the form prescribed under this Act;
(b) the estate duty affidavit (if any) was filed in Malaysia
with respect to any part of the estate of that individual;
or
(c) where such an estate duty affidavit has been filed, the
last of any corrective affidavits relating to that estate
duty affidavit was filed,
being the basis year in which the last of those events took place.
(4) The amount of any tax payable by the executors of a deceased
individual by virtue of this section (together with any penalty which
may be incurred under subsection 103(3), (5) or (7)) shall be debt due
from and payable out of the estate of that deceased individual.
(5) The executors of a deceased individual shall not distribute any
of the assets of his estate unless they have made provision (in so far as
they are able to do so out of those assets) for the payment in full of any
tax which they know or might reasonably expect to be payable by them
under this section.
(6) Any executors who fail to comply with subsection (5) shall be
jointly and severally liable to pay a penalty equal to the amount of the
tax to which the failure relates.


Income Tax 263
(7) Subsection 125(2) shall apply to a penalty imposed by
subsection (6) of this section as it applies to a penalty imposed by
subsection 112(3) or 113(2).
Companies and bodies of persons
75. (1) The responsibility for doing all acts and things required to be
done by or on behalf of a company or body of persons for the purposes
of this Act shall lie jointly and severally—
(a) in the case of a company, with—
(i) the manager or other principal officer in Malaysia;
(ii) the directors;
(iii) the secretary; and
(iv) any person (however styled) exercising the
functions of any of the persons mentioned in the
foregoing subparagraphs; and
(b) in the case of a body of persons, with—
(i) the manager;
(ii) the treasurer;
(iii) the secretary; and
(iv) the members of its controlling authority.
(2) The liquidator of a company which is being wound up shall not
distribute any of the assets of the company to its shareholders unless
he has made provision (in so far as he is able to do so out of the assets
of the company) for the payment in full of any tax which he knows or
might reasonably expect to be payable by the company under this Act
or to be deductible by the company under section 107.


(3) Any liquidator who fails to comply with subsection (2) shall be
liable to pay a penalty equal to the amount of the tax to which the
failure relates.
(4) Subsection 125(2) shall apply to a penalty imposed by
subsection (3) of this section as it applies to a penalty imposed by
subsection 112(3) or 113(2).
Director’s liability
75A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contrary to this Act or any other
written law—
(a) where any tax is due and payable under this Act by a
company, any person who is a director of that company
during the period in which that tax is liable to be paid by
that company; or
(b) where any debt is due and payable from an employer
under any rules made pursuant to section 107 and the
employer is a company, any person who is a director of
that company during the period in which the debt is
liable to be paid by that company,
shall be jointly and severally liable for such tax or debt, as the case
may be, that is due and payable and shall be recoverable under
section 106 from that person.
(2) In this section, “director” means any person who—
(a) is occupying the position of director (by whatever name
called), including any person who is concerned in the
management of the company’s business; and
(b) is, either on his own or with one or more associates
within the meaning of subsection 139(7), the owner
of, or able directly or through the medium of other
companies or by any other indirect means to control,


Income Tax 265
not less than twenty per cent of the ordinary share
capital of the company (“ordinary share capital” here
having the same meaning as in the definition of
“director” in section 2).
Limited liability partnership and business trust
75B. (1) The responsibility for doing all acts and things required to
be done —
(a) by or on behalf of a limited liability partnership for the
purposes of this Act shall lie jointly and severally—
(i) with the compliance officer who is appointed
amongst the partners of the limited liability
partnership or persons qualified to act as
secretaries under the Companies Act 2016 who is
a citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia and
ordinarily resides in Malaysia; or
(ii) if no compliance officer is appointed as such, any
one or all of the partners thereof; and
(b) by or on behalf of a business trust for the purposes of this
Act shall lie jointly and severally with the trustee
manager of such business trust.
(2) For the purpose of this section, “compliance officer “ has the
meaning assigned to it in section 27 of the Limited Liability
Partnerships Act 2012.
(3) Where in a year of assessment, a partnership or a company has
converted into a limited liability partnership in accordance with the
Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2012—
(a) every partner of the partnership shall continue to be
personally assessable and chargeable to tax for that year
of assessment and for any previous year of assessment


before the conversion in respect of his chargeable
income for any such year of assessment; and
(b) the limited liability partnership shall be assessable and
chargeable to tax for that year of assessment and for any
previous year of assessment before the conversion in
respect of the chargeable income of the company for any
such year of assessment.
(4) Where the limited liability partnership is so assessable and
chargeable under paragraph (3)(b), it shall be assessable and
chargeable to tax in like manner and to the like amount as the company
would have been assessed and charged to tax prior to the conversion.
Rulers and Ruling Chiefs
76. (1) The income of a Ruler or Ruling Chief shall be assessable
and chargeable to tax in the name of the person nominated by the Ruler
or Ruling Chief for the purposes of this Act as the person executing
the function of administrator of the private property of the Ruler or
Ruling Chief:
Provided that where no such nomination has been made by a Ruler
or Ruling Chief, section 66 shall apply to such Ruler or Ruling Chief.
(2) Where a person is responsible for the payment of tax on behalf
of a Ruler or Ruling Chief—
(a) that person may pay the tax out of any private property
in his hands or under his control belonging to the Ruler
or Ruling Chief and may, to the extent that he pays any
such tax out of his own property, indemnify himself out
of any such private property;
(b) that person shall not be personally liable in respect of the
tax except to the extent that he—


Income Tax 267
(i) has in his possession, custody or control any
private property belonging to the Ruler or Ruling
Chief; or
(ii) had any such private property in his possession,
custody or control at any time after receiving
notice of the tax having become due;
(c) unless the sanction of the Attorney General is first
obtained, no prosecution, suit or other legal proceedings
shall be instituted against that person in respect of any
act or thing or which he is responsible under this section;
and
(d) the provisions of section 67 shall be modified
accordingly when applicable with this section.
(3) In this section “Ruler or Ruling Chief” means—
(a) the Yang di-Pertuan Agong;
(b) the Raja Permaisuri Agong;
(c) the Timbalan Yang di-Pertuan Agong or other Ruler
exercising the functions of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong;
(d) a State Authority or any person exercising the functions
of a State Authority; or
(e) the Undang of Sungei Ujong, the Undang of Jelebu, the
Undang of Johol, the Undang of Rembau or the Tunku
Besar of Tampin.


PART V
RETURNS
Return of income by a person other than a company, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society
77. (1) Every person, other than a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society to which section 77A
applies, shall for each year of assessment furnish to the Director
General a return in the prescribed form—
(a) in the case of that person who is carrying on a business,
not later than 30 June in the year following that year of
assessment; or
(b) in any other case than the case in paragraph (a), not later
than 30 April in the year following the year of
assessment:
Provided that that person has—
(a) chargeable income for that year of assessment; or
(b) no chargeable income for that year of assessment, but
has chargeable income or has furnished a return or has
been required under this Act to furnish a return, for the
year of assessment immediately preceding that year of
assessment.
(1A) Where subsection 45(2) applies, a reference to a person under
paragraph 1(a) includes a reference to an individual where his wife or
her husband who elects, as the case may be, is carrying on a business.
(1B) For the purposes of this section, the person referred to in
subsection (1) shall furnish to the Director General a return in the
prescribed form on an electronic medium or by way of electronic
transmission in accordance with section 152A.


Income Tax 269
(2) Where a person is required to furnish a return under paragraph
(b) of the proviso to subsection (1), the Director General may by way
of notification waive that requirement for any year of assessment.
(3) An individual who arrives in Malaysia during a particular year
of assessment and—
(a) is chargeable to tax for that particular year; or
(b) is not chargeable to tax for that particular year but is
chargeable to tax for the year of assessment following
that particular year,
shall, within two months of his arrival give notice to the Director
General that he will be so chargeable.
(4) For the purposes of this section, a return for a year of assessment
shall—
(a) specify the chargeable income and the amount of tax
payable (if any) on that chargeable income for that year;
and
(b) contain such particulars as may be required by the
Director General.
Return of income by every company, limited liability partnership,
trust body or co-operative society
77A. (1) Every company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society shall for each year of assessment furnish to the
Director General a return in the prescribed form within seven months
from the date following the close of the accounting period which
constitutes the basis period for the year of assessment.
(1A) For the purposes of this section, a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body and co-operative society shall furnish to the
Director General a return in the prescribed form on an electronic


medium or by way of electronic transmission in accordance with
section 152A.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where there is a change in the
accounting period of a company, limited liability partnership, trust
body or co-operative society such that the accounts are not closed on
any date in a year, that company, limited liability partnership, trust
body or co-operative society shall furnish to the Director General a
return in the prescribed form for that year and the year of assessment
in which the accounts are closed within seven months from the date
following the close of the accounting period.
(3) For the purposes of this section, a return for a year of assessment
shall—
(a) specify the chargeable income and the amount of tax
payable (if any) on that chargeable income for that year;
and
(b) contain such particulars as may be required by the
Director General.
(4) Where a company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-
operative society is required to prepare financial statements in
accordance with any written law, the return furnished under this
section shall be made based on such financial statements.
Amendment of return
77B. (1) Where for a year of assessment a person has furnished a
return in accordance with subsection 77(1) or 77A(1), that person may
make amendment to such return in an amended return as prescribed by
the Director General in respect of the amount of tax or additional tax
payable by that person on the chargeable income or on the amount of
tax which has been or would have been wrongly repaid to him.
(1A) For the purposes of this section, a person who is a company,
limited liability partnership, trust body and co-operative society shall


Income Tax 271
furnish to the Director General an amended return in the prescribed
form on an electronic medium or by way of electronic transmission in
accordance with section 152A.
(2) An amended return under subsection (1) shall only be made after
the due date for the furnishing of the return in accordance with
subsection 77(1) or 77A(1), but not later than six months from that date.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the amended return shall—
(a) specify the amount or additional amount of chargeable
income and the amount of tax or additional tax payable
on that chargeable income;
(b) specify the amount of tax payable on the tax which has
or would have been wrongly repaid to him;
(c) specify the increased sum ascertained in accordance with
subsection (4); or
(d) contain such particulars as may be required by the
Director General.
(4) The tax or additional tax payable under subsection (1) shall be
increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount of such tax or
additional tax.
(5) The amendment under subsection (1) shall only be made once.
(6) Where—
(a) a return for a year of assessment has been furnished in
accordance with subsection 77(1) or 77A(1); and
(b) the Director General has made an assessment for that
year of assessment under section 91,
no amendment shall be allowed under this section.


Deduction of tax as final tax
77C. (1) Notwithstanding section 77, where for a year of assessment
an individual—
(a) has income only in respect of gains or profits from an
employment;
(b) deductions have been made by his employer in
accordance with subsection 107(2) in respect of such
gains or profits;
(c) the individual is employed by the same employer in that
year of assessment;
(d) such deductions are not borne by his employer for that
year of assessment; and
(e) that individual whose husband or wife has not made an
election pursuant to section 45,
the individual may elect not to furnish a return for a year of assessment
to the Director General in accordance with section 77.
(2) Where subsection (1) applies and no return for a year of
assessment has been furnished by an individual in accordance with
section 77—
(a) an individual is deemed to have made an election under
that subsection;
(b) the total amount of tax deducted referred to under
paragraph (1)(b) shall be deemed to be the amount of tax
payable of that individual for that year of assessment;
and
(c) no assessment shall be made by the Director General in
respect of that individual for that year of assessment.


Income Tax 273
(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the Director General
shall have the power to make an assessment under subsection 90(3) or
section 91 for any year of assessment and where an assessment is made
by the Director General, the amount which is deemed to be the tax
payable under paragraph (2)(b) shall be disregarded.
Power to call for specific returns and production of books
78. For the purpose of obtaining full information for ascertaining
whether or not a person is chargeable to tax or for determining his
liability the Director General may by notice under his hand require that
or any other person—
(a) to complete and deliver to the Director General within a
time specified in the notice (not being less than thirty
days from the date of service of the notice) any return
specified in the notice;
(b) to attend personally before the Director General and
produce for examination all books, accounts, returns and
other documents which the Director General deems
necessary;
(c) to make a return in accordance with paragraph (a) and
also to attend in accordance with paragraph (b); or
(d) to provide in writing such information or particulars
which the Director General deems necessary.
Power to call for statement of bank accounts, etc.
79. The Director General may by notice under his hand require any
person to furnish within a time specified in the notice (not being less
than thirty days from the date of service of the notice) a statement
containing particulars of—
(a) all banking accounts—


(i) in his own name or in the name of a wife or
dependent child of his or jointly in any such
names;
(ii) in which he is or has been interested jointly or
solely; or
(iii) on which he has or has had power to operate
jointly or solely,
(iv) being accounts which are in existence or have been
in existence at any time during a period to be
specified in the notice;
(b) all savings and loan accounts, deposits, building society
accounts and co-operative society accounts in regard to
which he has or has had any interest or power to operate
solely or jointly during that period;
(c) all assets which he and any wife or dependent child of
his possess or have possessed during that period;
(d) all sources of his and the gross income from those
sources; and
(e) all facts bearing upon his present or past chargeability to
tax.
Power of access to buildings and documents, etc.
80. (1) For the purposes of this Act the Director General shall at all
times have full and free access to all lands, buildings and places and to
all books, documents, objects, articles, materials and things and may
search such lands, buildings and places and may inspect, copy or make
extracts from any such books, documents, objects, articles, materials
and things without making any payment by way of fee or reward.


Income Tax 275
(1A) Where the Director General exercises his powers under
subsection (1), the occupiers of such lands, buildings and places shall
provide the Director General or an authorized officer with all
reasonable facilities and assistance for the exercise of his powers under
this section.
(2) The Director General may take possession of any books,
documents, objects, articles, materials and things to which he has
access under subsection (1) where in his opinion—
(a) the inspection of them, the copying of them or the
making of extracts from them cannot reasonably be
undertaken without taking possession of them;
(b) they may be interfered with or destroyed unless he takes
possession of them; or
(c) they may be needed as evidence in any legal proceedings
instituted under or in connection with this Act.
(3) Where in the opinion of the Director General it is necessary for
the purpose of ascertaining income in respect of the gains or profits
from a business for any period to examine any books, accounts or
records kept otherwise than in the national language, he may by notice
under his hand require any person carrying on the business during that
period to furnish within a time specified in the notice (not being less
than thirty days from the date of service of the notice) a translation in
the national language of the books, accounts or records in question:
Provided that in East Malaysia this subsection shall have effect as if
the words “or English” were inserted after the words “national
language” wherever they occur.
Power to call for information
81. The Director General may require any person to give orally or
may by notice under his hand require any person to give in writing
within a time specified in the notice all such information or particulars


as may be demanded of him by the Director General for the purposes
of this Act and which may be in the possession or control of that
person:
Provided that, where that person is a public officer or an officer in
the employment of a local authority or statutory authority, he shall not
by virtue of this section be obliged to disclose any particulars as to
which he is under a statutory obligation to observe secrecy.
Duty to keep records and give receipts
82. (1) Notwithstanding section 82A and subject to this section,
every person carrying on a business—
(a) shall keep and retain in safe custody sufficient records
for a period of seven years from the end of the year to
which any income from that business relates to enable
that income from that business for each year of
assessment or the adjusted loss from that business for the
basis period for any year of assessment to be readily
ascertained by the Director General or an authorized
officer; and
(b) if the gross takings from the business for the basis year
for any year of assessment exceeded one hundred and
fifty thousand ringgit from the sale of goods or one
hundred thousand ringgit from the performance of
services, shall issue a printed receipt serially numbered
for every sum received in that year of assessment in
respect of goods sold or services performed in the course
of or in connection with the business and shall retain a
duplicate of every receipt so issued.
(1A) Where a person carrying on a business has not furnished a
return under subsection 77(1), 77A(1) or (2) for a year of
assessment, that person shall keep and retain the records referred to
in subsection (1) that relate to that year of assessment for a period


Income Tax 277
of seven years after the end of the year in which the return is
furnished.
(2) Where in the carrying on of a business a machine is used for
recording sales, the issue of receipts pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) may
be dispensed with except where the Director General is not satisfied—
(a) that the machine automatically records all sales made; or
(b) that the total of all sales made in a day is transferred at
the end of the day to a record of sales.
(3) The Director General may specify by statutory order in respect
of any class or description of business (or by notice under his hand in
respect of the business of any particular person)—
(a) the form of records to be kept under paragraph (1)(a) and
the manner in which they shall be kept and retained; and
(b) the form of receipts to be issued and duplicate receipts
to be retained under paragraph (1)(b) and the manner in
which they shall be issued or retained.
(4) The Director General may waive all or any of the provisions of
subsection (1) in respect of any business or records or any class or
description of business or records.
(5) The Director General, if he is of the opinion that any accounts
or records produced by any person to the Director General for the
purpose of ascertaining the income of a person are insufficient or
inadequate for that purpose, may by notice under his hand require that
person to produce, in respect of any period or periods specified in the
notice and within a time so specified (that time not being less than
thirty days from the service of the notice), financial statements made
in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016.
(6) Any person who under subsection (1) is required to keep records
shall cause appropriate entries to be made in those records in respect
of transactions within sixty days of each transaction.


(7) Any person who is required by this section to keep records
and—
(a) does so electronically shall retain them in an
electronically readable form and shall keep the records
in such a manner as to enable the records to be readily
accessible and convertible into writing; or
(b) has originally kept records in a manual form and
subsequently converts those records into an electronic
form shall retain those records prior to the conversion in
their original form.
(8) All records that relate to any business in Malaysia shall be kept
and retained in Malaysia.
(9) For the purposes of this section, “records” include—
(a) books of account recording receipts and payments or
income and expenditure;
(b) invoices, vouchers, receipts and such other documents as
in the opinion of the Director General are necessary to
verify the entries in any books of account; and
(c) any other records as may be specified by the Director
General under subsection (3).
Duty to keep documents for ascertaining chargeable income and
tax payable
82A. (1) Subject to this section, every person who is required to
furnish a return of his income for a year of assessment under this Act
shall keep and retain in safe custody sufficient documents for a period
of seven years from the end of that year of assessment for the purposes
of ascertaining his chargeable income and tax payable.


Income Tax 279
(2) Where a person referred to in subsection (1) has not furnished a
return as required under this Act for a year of assessment, that person
shall keep and retain the documents referred to in subsection (1) that
relate to that year of assessment for a period of seven years after the
end of the year in which the return is furnished.
(3) The Director General may waive all or any of the provisions of
subsection (1) in respect of any income or deductions.
(4) Any person who is required by this section to keep documents
and—
(a) does so electronically shall retain them in an
electronically readable form and shall keep the
documents in such a manner as to enable the
documents to be readily accessible and convertible
into writing; or
(b) has originally kept documents in a manual form and
subsequently converts those documents into an
electronic form shall retain those documents prior to the
conversion in their original form.
(5) All documents that relate to any income in Malaysia shall be
kept and retained in Malaysia.
(6) For the purposes of this section, “documents” means—
(a) statement of income and expenditure; and
(b) invoices, vouchers, receipts and such other
documents as are necessary to verify the particulars
in a return.


Return by employer
83. (1) Every employer shall, for each year, furnish to the Director
General a return in the prescribed form not later than 31 March in the
year immediately following the first-mentioned year containing—
(a) the number of employees employed in the first-
mentioned year;
(b) the number of employees subject to deductions under the
Income Tax (Deduction From Remuneration) Rules
1994 [P.U. (A) 507/1994] for the first-mentioned year;
(c) the number of new employees employed in the
first-mentioned year;
(d) the number of employees who have resigned in the
first-mentioned year;
(e) the number of employees who have resigned and left
Malaysia in the first-mentioned year; and
(f) such other particulars as may be required by the Director
General.
(1A) For the purpose of subsection (1), every employer shall, for
each year, prepare and render to his employee a statement of
remuneration of that employee on or before the last day of February in
the year immediately following the first-mentioned year containing the
following information:
(a) the relevant particulars of the employee;
(b) the full amount of the gross income falling within section 13
paid, payable or provided by or on behalf of the
employer to that employee in respect of the employment;
(c) pension, annuity or periodical payment falling under
paragraph (4)(e);


Income Tax 281
(d) total deductions under the Income Tax (Deduction From
Remuneration) Rules 1994 paid to the Director General
in the first-mentioned year;
(e) the compulsory contributions made by the employees to
the Pension Fund or Employees’ Provident Fund, or any
approved fund pursuant to section 150;
(f) details relating to the payment of arrears and others for
the years prior to the first-mentioned year;
(g) tax exempt allowances, perquisites, gifts and benefits for
the first-mentioned year; and
(h) such other particulars as may be required by the Director
General.
(1B) Where the employer is a company, limited liability partnership,
trust body or co-operative society, the return referred to in subsection
(1) shall be furnished on an electronic medium or by way of electronic
transmission in accordance with section 152A.
(2) Where an employer commences to employ an individual who is
or is likely to be chargeable to tax in respect of income in respect of
gains or profits from the employment, the employer shall give notice
in the prescribed form to the Director General not later than thirty days
after the commencement of the employment.
(3) Where an employer is about to cease to employ an individual
who is or is likely to be chargeable to tax in respect of income in
respect of gains or profits from the employment or where an individual
under his employment dies, the employer shall, not less than thirty
days before the cessation of the employment, or in respect of cessation
by reason of death not more than thirty days after being informed of
the death of the individual, give notice in the prescribed form to the
Director General of the cessation of the employment:
Provided that, where he is satisfied that it is reasonable to do so in
the circumstances, the Director General may accept for the purposes


of this subsection a notice in the prescribed form given less than thirty
days before the cessation of the employment, or a notice in the
prescribed form given on or after the cessation, or in respect of
cessation by reason of death a notice in the prescribed form given more
than thirty days after being informed of the death of the individual:
Provided further that an employer shall not be required to give the
notice in the prescribed form to the Director General under this
subsection in respect of an individual—
(a) where the income from the employment of that
individual is subject to deduction under any rules made
pursuant to paragraph 154(1)(a); or
(b) where the total monthly remuneration from the
employment of that individual is below the minimum
amount of income that is subject to deduction under any
rules made pursuant to paragraph 154(1)(a),
and where it is known to him that the individual is not retiring from
any employment.
(4) Where an individual chargeable to tax in respect of income in
respect of gains or profits from an employment is to the knowledge of
his employer about to leave or intending to leave Malaysia for a period
exceeding three months, the employer shall not less than thirty days
before the expected date of departure give notice in the prescribed form
to the Director General:
Provided that—
(a) where he is satisfied that it is reasonable to do so in the
circumstances, the Director General may accept for the
purposes of this subsection a notice in the prescribed
form given less than thirty days before the departure or
a notice in the prescribed form given on or after the
departure; and


Income Tax 283
(b) where he is satisfied that an individual is required to
leave Malaysia at frequent intervals in the course of his
employment, the Director General may waive the
application of this subsection as regards that individual.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the
contrary, where an employer has in his possession any moneys
whatsoever which are or may be payable to or for the benefit of an
employee who has ceased or is about to cease to be employed by him
or who is about to leave Malaysia for a period of more than three
months with no intention of returning, he shall not, without the
permission of the Director General, pay any part of those moneys to or
for the benefit of the employee until ninety days after the receipt by
the Director General of the notice required to be given under
subsection (3) or (4), as the case may be, and if at any time the Director
General directs him to pay the full amount or a portion of those moneys
towards payment of the tax payable by the employee, he shall pay as
directed.
(6) For the purposes of this section and subsection 107(4), any
person to whom or for whose benefit a service is rendered or performed
by another person shall be deemed to be an employer whether or not
he employs that other person or is responsible for paying remuneration
to that other person.
Duty to furnish particulars of payment made to an agent, etc.
83A. (1) Every company shall for each year prepare and provide to
each of its agent, dealer or distributor a copy of the form prescribed by
the Director General containing—
(a) particulars of payment (whether in monetary form or
otherwise) made during that year of assessment to that
agent, dealer or distributor;
(b) name and address of that agent, dealer or distributor; and


(c) such other particulars as may be required by the Director
General.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the prescribed form shall be
provided to the agent, dealer or distributor not later than 31 March in
the year immediately following the year mentioned in that subsection.
(3) The company shall keep and retain the prescribed form in safe
custody and shall make it readily accessible to the Director General.
(4) In this section, “agent”, “dealer” or “distributor” means any
person who is authorized by a company to act as its agent, dealer or
distributor, and who receives payment (whether in monetary form or
otherwise) from the company arising from sales, transactions or
schemes carried out by him as an agent, dealer or distributor.
Return concerning persons other than the maker of the return
84. (1) Every person who in whatever capacity is in receipt or has
control of any money or property (being income of the kind mentioned
in section 4) of or belonging to any other person who is chargeable to
tax in respect thereof shall, if required to do so by a notice under the
hand of the Director General, deliver to the Director General within a
period to be specified in the notice (not being less than thirty days from
the date of service of the notice) a return in the prescribed form
containing particulars of the income and a statement of the name and
address of the person to whom it belongs.
(2) Every person who sells any goods in Malaysia on behalf of a
person who is not resident for the basis year for a year of assessment
shall, if those goods are sold in the course of carrying on a business of
that second mentioned person, deliver to the Director General within
thirty days after the end of each quarter of that year of assessment a
return showing the gross proceeds from any such sales made during
that quarter.


Income Tax 285
(3) In subsection (2) “quarter”, in relation to a year of assessment,
means any period of three months ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
Return by occupiers
85. The Director General may by notice under his hand require the
occupier of any land or premises situated in Malaysia to furnish within
a time to be specified in the notice (not being less than thirty days from
the date of service of the notice) a return containing—
(a) the name and address of the person registered (under any
law relating to the registration of title to land) as the
proprietor of the land or premises, or the name and
address of the person to whom he pays rent therefor; and
(b) a statement of any rent or other consideration payable in
respect of the occupation or in respect of furniture
enjoyed in connection with the occupation.
Return by partnership
86. (1) Where a business is carried on by a partnership—
(a) the precedent partner, that is to say, the partner who,
being an acting partner present in Malaysia—
(i) is first named in the partnership agreement; or
(ii) if there is no partnership agreement, is specified by
name or initial singly or with precedence to the
other partners in the usual name of the firm; or
(b) if no acting partner is present in Malaysia, any attorney,
agent, manager or factor of the partnership in Malaysia,


shall for each year of assessment furnish to the Director General a
return in the prescribed form not later than 30 June in the year
following that year of assessment.
(1A) For the purposes of this section, the person referred to in
paragraphs (1)(a) and (b) shall furnish to the Director General a return
in the prescribed form on an electronic medium or by way of electronic
transmission in accordance with section 152A.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a return for a year of
assessment shall—
(a) specify the divisible income or the divisible loss as
ascertained under the appropriate provisions of
sections 55, 56, 57, 58 and 59 in relation to the
partnership for that year;
(b) contain such information as is necessary to determine the
statutory income from all sources of the partners of the
partnership; and
(c) contain such other information as may be required by the
Director General.
(3) If a partnership has been dissolved as to all its partners, this
section shall continue to apply in relation to the dissolved partnership,
and those persons who were partners of the partnership immediately
before the dissolution shall be deemed to continue to be partners for
the purposes of this section.
Power to call for further return
87. The Director General may give notice in writing to any person
whenever he thinks fit requiring that person to furnish within a reasonable
time (to be specified in the notice) fuller or further returns respecting any
matter as to which a return is required by or under this Act.


Income Tax 287
Returns deemed to be made with due authority
88. A return purporting to be made pursuant to this Act by or on behalf
of any person shall be presumed to have been made by that person or on
his authority, as the case may be, until contrary is proved; and any person
signing such a return shall be deemed to be cognizant of its contents.
Change of address
89. Every person chargeable to tax who changes his address in
Malaysia (being an address furnished by him to the Director General)
for another address in Malaysia shall within three months inform the
Director General of the change by notice in the prescribed form.
PART VI
ASSESSMENTS AND APPEALS
Chapter 1 - Assessments
Assessments generally
90. (1) Where a person has furnished a return in accordance with
section 77 or 77A to the Director General for a year of assessment, the
Director General shall be deemed to have made, on the day on which
the return is furnished, an assessment in respect of that person in the
amount of tax on the chargeable income, the tax and the chargeable
income being the respective amounts as specified in the return.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, where the Director General is
deemed to have made an assessment under subsection (1)—
(a) the return referred to in that subsection shall be deemed
to be a notice of assessment; and
(b) the deemed notice of assessment shall be deemed to have
been served on the person on the day on which the


Director General is deemed to have made the
assessment.
(3) Where a person for a year of assessment has not furnished a
return in accordance with section 77 or 77A, the Director General may
according to the best of his judgment determine the amount of the
chargeable income of that person for that year and make an assessment
accordingly:
Provided that the making of an assessment in respect of a person
under this subsection shall not affect any liability otherwise incurred
by that person by reason of his failure to deliver the return.
Assessments and additional assessments in certain cases
91. (1) The Director General, where for any year of assessment it
appears to him that no or no sufficient assessment has been made on a
person chargeable to tax, may in that year or within five years after its
expiration make an assessment or additional assessment, as the case
may be, in respect of that person in the amount or additional amount
of chargeable income and tax or in the additional amount of tax in
which, according to the best of the Director General’s judgment, the
assessment with respect to that person ought to have been made for
that year.
(2) Where the Director General discovers that the whole or part of
any tax repaid to a person (otherwise than in consequence of an
agreement come to with respect to an assessment pursuant to
subsection 101(2) or in consequence of an assessment having been
determined on appeal) has been repaid by mistake whether of fact or
law, the Director General may make an assessment in respect of that
person in the amount of that tax or that part of that tax, as the case may
be:
Provided that no such assessment shall be made—
(a) if the repayment was in fact made on the basis of, or in
accordance with, the practice of the Director General


Income Tax 289
generally prevailing at the time when the repayment was
made; or
(b) in respect of any tax, more than five years after the tax
has been repaid.
(3) The Director General where it appears to him that—
(a) any form of fraud or wilful default has been committed
by or on behalf of any person; or
(b) any person has been negligent,
in connection with or in relation to tax, may at any time make an
assessment in respect of that person for any year of assessment for the
purpose of making good any loss of tax attributable to the fraud, wilful
default or negligence in question.
(4) Where in a year of assessment—
(a) any assessment made under this Act or the Real Property
Gains Tax Act 1976 [Act 169] in respect of a person for
any year of assessment has been determined by the court
on appeal or review; or
(b) any exemption, relief, remission or allowance granted to
a person for any year of assessment pursuant to any
provision of this Act or any other written law in respect
of income of that person which is subject to tax under
this Act has been withdrawn, revoked or cancelled for
failing to comply with any condition imposed in granting
such exemption, relief, remission or allowance,
the Director General may in the first-mentioned year of assessment or
within five years after its expiration make an assessment in respect of
that person for any year of assessment for the purpose of giving effect
to the determination, revocation, withdrawal or cancellation, as the
case may be.


(5) The Director General, where for any year of assessment it
appears to him that no or no sufficient assessment has been made on a
person chargeable to tax in consequence of the Director General’s
determination pursuant to subsection 140A(3), may in that year or
within seven years after its expiration make an assessment or
additional assessment, as the case may be, in respect of that person in
the amount or additional amount of chargeable income and tax or in
the additional amount of tax in which, according to the best of the
Director General’s judgment, the assessment with respect to that
person ought to have been made for that year.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, where in a basis
period for a year of assessment, an adjustment is made in respect of the
input tax paid or to be paid under the Goods and Services Tax
Act 2014, the Director General may at any time, as may be necessary
to give effect to such adjustment, make an assessment or a reduced
assessment for the year of assessment to which the adjustment relates,
or if the year of assessment to which the adjustment relates cannot be
ascertained, for the year of assessment in which the Director General
discovers the adjustment.
(7) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (5), the Director General
may at any time make an assessment or additional assessment, as the
case may be, for a year of assessment in respect of a person, in the
amount or additional amount of chargeable income and tax, in
consequence of a mutual agreement procedure in the double taxation
arrangement effected under section 132.
Deemed assessment on the amended return
91A. (1) Where a person has furnished an amended return in
accordance with section 77B for a year of assessment, the Director
General shall be deemed to have made, on the day on which the
amended return is furnished, an assessment or additional assessment
in respect of that person—
(a) in the amount of tax or additional tax payable on the
chargeable income; or


Income Tax 291
(b) in the amount of tax which has been or would have been
wrongly repaid,
the tax or additional tax and the chargeable income being the respective
amounts as specified in the amended return.
(2) For the purpose of this Act, where the Director General is
deemed to have made an assessment or additional assessment under
subsection (1)—
(a) the amended return referred to in that subsection shall be
deemed to be a notice of assessment or additional
assessment; and
(b) the deemed notice of assessment or additional
assessment shall be deemed to have been served on the
person on the day on which the Director General is
deemed to have made the assessment or additional
assessment.
Advance assessments
92. (1) Subject to this section—
(a) where in a year of assessment a person ceases to possess
a source consisting of a business the Director General
may in that year make an assessment in respect of that
person and income from that source for that year of
assessment and the following year of assessment;
(b) where in a year of assessment a person commences to
receive income in respect of income from an
employment or in respect of any pension, annuity, or
other periodical payments falling under paragraph 4(e),
the Director General may in that year make an
assessment in respect of that person and income from


that source for that year of assessment and each of the
subsequent years of assessment;
(c) where in a year of assessment the Director General is
satisfied that a person who possesses a source is about to
leave Malaysia and—
(i) that person is likely to cease to possess that source
in that year of assessment or the following year of
assessment; or
(ii) it is desirable for other reasons that an assessment
be made in respect of that person,
he may in that year make an assessment in respect of that
person and income from that source or from any source
for that year of assessment and the following year of
assessment;
(d) where a person who has ceased to possess a source in a
year of assessment receives income from that source
after the end of that year (being income which has not
been or does not fall to be included in the gross income
of that person from that source for any preceding basis
period) the Director General may in the year of
assessment in which that income is received make an
assessment in respect of that person and that income for
that year of assessment;
(e) where in a year of assessment a person is chargeable to
tax in consequence of the application of subsection 54(2)
to a business, the Director General may at any time in
that year make an assessment in respect of that person
and any income from that business for that year of
assessment; and
(f) where the basis period for a year of assessment in respect
of a source or sources of a person is a period of twelve
months ending on a day other than 31 December in a


Income Tax 293
basis year the Director General, if he thinks fit, may in
that year make an assessment in respect of that person
and income from that source or those sources, as case
may be, for that year of assessment.
(2) Where an assessment is made under subsection (1) in respect of
a person, it shall be made on the assumption that—
(a) all the provisions of this Act in force for the year of
assessment in which the assessment is made will
continue in force for the year of assessment for which
the assessment is made; and
(b) if that person is an individual, the personal
circumstances of that person will be the same in the basis
year for the year of assessment for which the assessment
is made as they were in the basis year for the year of
assessment in which the assessment is made,
and, if in the year of assessment for which the assessment is made it
appears to the Director General that by reason of that assumption the
assessment is more favourable or less favourable to that person than it
would have been if it had been made under section 90, he may take
such action under section 91 or make such repayments of tax as the
justice of the case appears to him to require.
(3) Where—
(a) this section confers powers to make an assessment in
respect of a person;
(b) an assessment has been made in respect of that person in
a particular year of assessment; and
(c) the Director General is of the opinion that an additional
assessment ought to be made under subsection 91(1) in
respect of that person in that particular year,


subsection 91(1) shall apply as if the year of assessment referred to
therein were that particular year.
(4) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that—
(a) the fact that an assessment has been made by virtue of
subsection (1) in respect of a person and a source of his
shall not prevent the Director General from making an
assessment under this Act in respect of that person and
any other source of his; and
(b) the fact that an assessment which would otherwise have
been made by virtue of subsection (1) in respect of a
person for a year of assessment has not been made
because of an insufficiency of total income to produce
chargeable income for that year shall not prevent the
Director General from making an assessment under any
other provision of this Act in respect of that person for
that year of assessment or from taking an amount equal
to that total income into account when doing so.
Form and making of assessments
93. An assessment, other than an assessment under subsections 90(1)
and 91A(1), in respect of a person shall—
(a) be made in the appropriate prescribed form;
(b) indicate, in addition to any other material included
therein, the appropriate year of assessment and the
amount or additional amount of chargeable income and
the tax charged thereon or the amount of tax or
additional tax, as the case may be; and
(c) specify in the appropriate space in that form the date on
which that form was duly completed,


Income Tax 295
and, where that form appears to have been duly completed the
assessment shall, until the contrary is proved, be presumed to have
been made on the date so specified.
Record of assessments
94. The Director General shall cause to be maintained in such manner
as he thinks fit a record of all assessments made for each year of
assessment.
Discharge of double assessments
95. Where two or more assessments have been made with respect to
a person on the same income for the same year of assessment, the
Director General may discharge such of those assessments as need to
be discharged in order to ensure that the income is charged to tax only
once for that year.
Notice of assessment
96. (1) As soon as may be after an assessment, other than an
assessment under subsections 90(1) and 91A(1), has been made, the
Director General shall cause a notice of assessment to be served on the
person in respect of whom the assessment was made.
(2) Where the tax charged under an assessment is increased on
appeal to the Special Commissioners or a court, then, so soon as may
be after the appeal has been decided there shall be served on the person
in respect of whom the assessment was made a notice of increased
assessment.
(3) Where subsection 99(2) applies as regards an agent and another
person, any notice to be served under subsection (1) or (2) shall be
served both on the agent and on the other person.


(4) A notice served under subsection (1) or (2) shall be in the
prescribed form and shall indicate, in addition to any other material
included therein—
(a) in the case of a notice served under subsection (1), the
year of assessment, the amount or additional amount of
chargeable income and the tax charged thereon or the
amount of the tax or additional tax, as the case may be;
(b) in the case of a notice served under subsection (2), the
year of assessment and the amount of the increase in the
tax charged; and
(c) in either case—
(i) the place at which payment is to be made;
(ii) the increase for late payment imposed by
subsection 103(5) or (7); and
(iii) any right of appeal which may exist under this Act.
Composite assessment
96A. (1) Without prejudice to section 91, where a person—
(a) makes default in furnishing a return in accordance with
subsection 77(1) or 77A(1);
(b) fails to give notice of chargeability in accordance with
subsection 77(3);
(c) makes an incorrect return by omitting or understating any
income of which he is required by this Act to make a return
on behalf of himself or another person; or


Income Tax 297
(d) gives any incorrect information in relation to any matter
affecting his own chargeability to tax or the chargeability
to tax of any other person,
for any year or years of assessment (that year or those years being
referred to in this section as the relevant year or relevant years), the
Director General and that person may come to an agreement in writing
as to the payment by that person of a sum of money (in this section
referred to as the total amount) being—
(i) the amount of tax which has been undercharged or
not charged for that relevant year or those relevant
years in consequence of such default in furnishing
a return or failure to give notice of chargeability or
making an incorrect return or giving any incorrect
information; and
(ii) the amount of any penalty or penalties which
that person may be required to pay for that
relevant year or those relevant years pursuant to
subsection 112(3) or 113(2) or both (or where
such penalty is abated or remitted under
subsection 124(3) so much, if any, of the
penalty which has not been abated or remitted).
(2) Where the Director General and a person have come to an
agreement pursuant to subsection (1), the Director General may make
a composite assessment in respect of that person in the total amount.
(3) As soon as may be after a composite assessment has been made,
the Director General shall cause a notice of composite assessment to
be served on the person in respect of whom the composite assessment
was made.
(4) A notice served under subsection (3) shall be in the prescribed
form and shall indicate in addition to any other material included
therein—
(a) the relevant year or relevant years;


(b) the amount or aggregate amount of tax undercharged or
not charged in the relevant year or relevant years;
(c) the amount or aggregate amount of any penalty imposed
by virtue of subsection 112(3) or 113(2) or both (or
where such penalty is abated or remitted under
subsection 124(3) so much, if any, of the penalty which
has not been abated or remitted); and
(d) the place at which payment of the total amount is to be
made.
(5) The total amount shall be collected as if it were part of the tax
payable by the person in respect of whom the composite assessment
has been made but shall not be treated as tax so payable for the
purposes of the provisions of this Act other than sections 103 to 106.
(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act—
(a) a composite assessment made under this section shall be
final and conclusive for the purposes of this Act; and
(b) no appeal shall lie against a composite assessment.
(7) For the purposes of this section, references to sections of this
Act in subsections (1), (4) and (5) shall be deemed to include
references to the corresponding sections of the repealed laws, and
references to year of assessment in subsection (1) shall be deemed to
include a reference to pre-year of assessment; the repealed laws and
pre-year of assessment having the same meaning as in subparagraph
1(1) of Part I of Schedule 9.
Finality of assessment
97. (1) Where—


Income Tax 299
(a) no valid notice of appeal against an assessment has been
given under section 99 within the time specified by that
section (or any extension thereof);
(b) an agreement has been come to with respect to an
assessment pursuant to subsection 101(2);
(c) an assessment has been determined on appeal and there
is no right of further appeal; or
(d) a valid notice of appeal against an assessment has been
given but the appellant dies before the hearing of the
appeal by the Special Commissioners is commenced or
completed and no personal representatives of the estate
of the deceased appellant applies to the Special
Commissioners within two years after his death to
proceed with or complete the hearing,
the assessment as made, agreed to or determined shall be final and
conclusive for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall prejudice the exercise of any
power conferred on the Director General by section 91, 95 or
subsection 143(3).
Notification of non-chargeability
97A. (1) Where in ascertaining the chargeable income of a person, it
appears to the Director General that—
(a) no assessment shall be made in respect of that person for
any year of assessment by reason of—
(i) absence of adjusted income, statutory income,
aggregate income or total income of a person from
any of his sources of income; or


(ii) exemption granted to that person under this Act or
the Promotion of Investments Act 1986; or
(b) assessment has been made in respect of that person, but
that person has no statutory income from a source
consisting of a business,
the Director General may notify that person in writing—
(i) in respect of paragraph (a), that no assessment
shall be made for that year of assessment and
provide a computation with regard to it; or
(ii) in respect of paragraph (b), the adjustment, if any,
made in respect of that source consisting of a business
and provide a computation with regard to it.
(1A) Where a person has furnished to the Director General a return
for a year of assessment in accordance with subsection 77(1)
or 77A(1) and there is no chargeable income for that year of
assessment, then if the person in respect of such return is aggrieved by
the public ruling made under section 138A or any practice of the
Director General generally prevailing at the time when the return is
made—
(a) the return shall be deemed to be a notification made by
the Director General under subsection (1) on the day the
return is furnished; and
(b) the notification deemed to have been made under
paragraph (a) shall be deemed to have been notified to
the person on the day on which the Director General is
deemed to have made the notification.
(2) Where a person is dissatisfied with the notification made by the
Director General under subsection (1) or the return which is deemed
under subsection (1A) to be a notification made by the Director
General, he may within thirty days from the date of being so notified,
appeal to the Special Commissioners as if the notification were a notice


Income Tax 301
of assessment and the provisions of this Act relating to appeals shall
apply accordingly with such necessary modifications.
(3) If no notice of appeal against a notification made by the Director
General under subsection (1) or the return which is deemed under
subsection (1A) to be a notification made by the Director General has
been given within the time specified under that subsection or any
extended period thereof, the notification shall be final and conclusive
for the purposes of this Act.
(4) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the exercise of any power
conferred on the Director General by section 91.
(5) Where a person has furnished to the Director General a return
for a year of assessment in accordance with subsection 77(1)
or 77A(1) and there is no chargeable income for that year of
assessment, then if the person in respect of such return alleges that—
(a) there is an error or a mistake made by the person in that
return, the person may make an application in writing to
the Director General for an amendment to be made in
respect of such return; or
(b) the amount that has been computed in the return is
inaccurate by reason of—
(i) any exemption, relief, remission, allowance or
deduction granted for that year of assessment
under this Act or any other written law published
in the Gazette after the year of assessment in which
the return is furnished;
(ii) the approval for any exemption, relief, remission,
allowance or deduction is granted after the year of
assessment in which the return is furnished; or
(iii) a deduction not allowed in respect of payment not
due to be paid under subsection 107A(2), 107D(3)


or 109(2), section 109A, or subsection 109B(2) or
109F(2) on the day a return is furnished,
the person may make an application in writing to the
Director General for relief.
(6) The application under subsection (5) shall be made—
(a) in respect of paragraph (5)(a), within six months from
the date the return is furnished;
(b) in respect of subparagraphs (5)(b)(i) and (ii), within five
years after the end of the year the exemption, relief,
remission, allowance or deduction is published in the
Gazette or the approval is granted, whichever is the later;
or
(c) in respect of subparagraph (5)(b)(iii), within one year
after the end of the year the payment is made.
(7) On receiving an application under subsection (5), the Director
General shall inquire into the matter and may make amendment in
respect of the amount that has been computed as appears to the
Director General to be just and reasonable.
(8) No amendment shall be allowed under subsection (7) in respect
of an error or a mistake as to the basis on which the non-chargeability
of the applicant ought to have been computed if the return or statement
containing the error or mistake was in fact made on the basis of or in
accordance with the public ruling made under section 138A or any
practice of the Director General generally prevailing at the time when
the return is made.
(9) An application under subsection (5) shall be as nearly as may be
in the same form as a notice of appeal under section 99.
(10) Where the applicant is aggrieved by the Director General’s
decision on the application under subsection (5), the following
provisions shall apply:


Income Tax 303
(a) the applicant may, within six months after being
informed of the decision, request in the prescribed form
for the Director General to forward the application to the
Special Commissioners;
(b) the Director General shall within three months after
receiving the request send the application forward as
if he were sending an appeal forward pursuant to
section 102; and
(c) the application shall thereupon be deemed to be an
appeal and shall be disposed of accordingly.
Chapter 2 – Appeals
The Special Commissioners and the Secretary
98. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be three or more
Special Commissioners of Income Tax and a Secretary to the Special
Commissioners.
(2) The Special Commissioners shall be appointed by the Yang
di-Pertuan Agong.
(3) The Special Commissioners shall include such number of
persons with judicial or other legal experience (that is to say,
experience as an advocate, as a member of the judicial and legal service
or as the holder of an office to which the Judges Remuneration Act
1971 [Act 45], applies) as may be necessary for the purposes of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5; and, if the Yang di-Pertuan Agong
considers it expedient to do so, he may appoint from amongst those
persons a Chairman and such number of Deputy Chairman of the
Special Commissioners.
(4) Each Special Commissioner—


(a) shall hold office for such period and on such terms
(including terms as to remuneration and allowances) as
may be specified by the Minister; and
(b) shall be deemed to be a public servant within the
meaning of section 21 of the Penal Code [Act 574].
(5) The office of the Secretary shall be a federal public office.
Right of appeal
99. (1) Subject to subsection (1A), a person aggrieved by an
assessment made in respect of him may appeal to the Special
Commissioners against the assessment by giving to the Director
General within thirty days after the service of the notice of assessment
or, in the case of an appeal against an assessment made under
section 92, within the first three months of the year of assessment
following the year of assessment for which the assessment was made
(or within such extended period as regards those days or months as
may be allowed under section 100) a written notice of appeal in the
prescribed form stating the grounds of appeal and containing such
other particulars as may be required by that form.
(1A) A person who has failed to furnish a return for a basis period
for a year of assessment in accordance with subsection 77A(1) may
appeal against the assessment made by the Director General under
subsection 90(3) by furnishing a return for that basis period for that
year of assessment together with the written notice of appeal referred
to in subsection (1) within the time stipulated for giving of the notice.
(2) Where an assessment has been made in respect of a person
appointed under section 68 to be the agent of another person, the agent
and that other person shall for the purposes of this section and the other
provisions of this Act relating to appeals each be treated as the person in
respect of whom the assessment was made and, if they both appeal against
the assessment, their appeals shall if possible be dealt with together:


Income Tax 305
Provided that, in the case of a receiver deemed by subsection 68(4)
to have been appointed under subsection 68(1) to be the agent of a
court, this subsection shall not apply.
(3) Where in a case to which section 67 applies the principal has
appealed against an assessment, the representative, whether or not he
himself has appealed or is entitled to appeal against the assessment and
without prejudice to any power conferred on him by subparagraph
14(c) of Schedule 5, may represent and act generally on behalf of the
principal for the purposes of the provisions of this Act relating to
appeals (“the principal” and “the representative” here having the same
meaning as in section 67).
(4) This section shall not apply to an assessment made under
subsection 90(1) or section 91A, except where a person in respect of
such assessment is aggrieved by the public ruling made under
section 138A or any practice of the Director General generally
prevailing at the time when the assessment is made.
Extension of time for appeal
100. (1) A person seeking to appeal against an assessment after the
expiration of the period to make an appeal under subsection 99(1), may
within seven years after the end of that period, make to the Director
General a written application in the prescribed form for an extension
of that period within which a notice of appeal against that assessment
may be given under that subsection.
(2) On receipt of an application under subsection (1), the Director
General—
(a) if he is satisfied that for any reasonable cause the applicant
was prevented from giving notice of appeal within the
appropriate period provided by subsection 99(1), shall
extend that period as he thinks proper in the circumstances
and give written notice of the extension to the applicant;
and


(b) if he is not so satisfied, shall forward the application to
the Secretary, together with a statement of the reasons
for his dissatisfaction and his address for the purposes of
the application.
(3) Where the Director General forwards an application and
statement pursuant to paragraph (2)(b), he shall inform the applicant in
writing that he has done so and shall furnish the applicant with a copy
of the statement; and the applicant may, within twenty-one days of
receiving the information and the copy, forward to the Secretary
written representations as to the application and the statement.
(4) Any application and statement forwarded pursuant to
paragraph (2)(b) and any representations forwarded pursuant to
subsection (3) shall be brought by the Secretary to the attention of
one of the Special Commissioners, who shall decide whether or
not to extend as he thinks proper in the circumstances the period
within which the notice of appeal may be given.
(5) The decision of one of the Special Commissioners refusing an
application or granting an extension under subsection (4) shall be
notified in writing by the Secretary to the applicant and the Director
General and shall be final.
Review by Director General
101. (1) On receipt of a notice of appeal under subsection 99(1), the
Director General shall, within twelve months from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal, review the assessment against which the appeal
is made and for that purpose may—
(a) require the appellant to furnish such particulars as the
Director General may think necessary with respect to the
income to which the assessment relates and any other
matter relevant to the assessment in the Director
General’s opinion;


Income Tax 307
(b) require the appellant to produce all books or other
documents in the appellant’s custody or under the
appellant’s control relating to any source to which the
assessment relates or any other matter relevant to the
assessment in the Director General’s opinion;
(c) summon any person who in the Director General’s
opinion is able to give evidence respecting the
assessment to attend before the Director General; and
(d) examine any person so attending on oath or otherwise.
(1A) Where the Director General requires a period longer than
twelve months to carry out the review under subsection (1), the
Director General may apply to the Minister for an extension of that
period not later than thirty days before the expiry of the twelve-month
period.
(1B) On receipt of an application under subsection (1A), the Minister
may grant such extension as he thinks proper and reasonable in the
circumstances provided that such extension shall not exceed a period
of six months from the date of expiry of the twelve-month period.
(1C) The decision of the Minister under subsection (1B) shall be
notified in writing to the Director General and shall be final.
(2) Where as the result of a review under subsection (1) the Director
General and the appellant come to an agreement in writing either—
(a) as to the amount of the chargeable income and the tax
chargeable thereon or the amount of tax or additional tax; or
(b) that there is no chargeable income or tax,
the assessment against which the appeal is made shall be treated as
having been confirmed, reduced, increased or discharged in
accordance with the agreement.


(3) Subject to subsection (5), where as the result of a review under
subsection (1) the Director General and the appellant come to an oral
agreement as to the matters mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) or (b) and
the Director General serves a written confirmation of the agreement on
the appellant, then, unless the appellant within a period of twenty-one
days of being so served gives notice in writing to the Director General
repudiating the agreement, the oral agreement as confirmed by the
Director General shall be deemed to be an agreement in writing within
the meaning of subsection (2) come to upon the expiration of that
period between the Director General and the appellant.
(4) Subject to subsection (5), where as the result of a review under
subsection (1) the Director General makes to the appellant proposals
in writing that the assessment should be confirmed, reduced, increased
or discharged and the appellant neither accepts nor rejects the
proposals, unless the appellant within a period of thirty days of being
served with such proposals (or within such further period as the
Director General on the appellant’s application may allow) gives
notice in writing to the Director General rejecting the proposals, the
proposals shall be deemed to have been accepted and to be an
agreement in writing within the meaning of subsection (2) come to
upon the expiration of that period or further period, as the case may be,
between the Director General and the appellant.
(5) Where by the operation of subsection (3) or (4) there is deemed
to be an agreement within the meaning of subsection (2) between the
Director General and the appellant, one of the Special Commissioners
on the application of the appellant made to the Special Commissioners
within a period of thirty days after the agreement is deemed to be come
to may, after giving the Director General an opportunity to make oral
or written representations, set the agreement aside if he thinks it just
and equitable to do so in the circumstances.
(6) The decision of one of the Special Commissioners on an
application under subsection (5) shall be notified by the Secretary in
writing to the applicant and the Director General and shall be final.
(7) References in this section to agreements come to between the
Director General and the appellant and to confirmations and requests


Income Tax 309
being served on the appellant include references to agreements come
to between the Director General and a duly authorized person
conducting correspondence or otherwise acting on behalf of the
appellant in relation to the appeal and to confirmations and requests
served on such a person.
(8) Where on an appeal against an assessment the tax chargeable
under the assessment is increased by an agreement come to under
subsection (2) or by an agreement deemed to be come to under
subsection (3) or (4) and not set aside under subsection (5), the Director
General shall serve on the appellant a notice in the prescribed form
which shall—
(a) indicate, in addition to any other material included
therein, the amount of the increase in the tax charged and
the place of payment; and
(b) have the same effect for the purposes of Part VII as a
notice of increased assessment.
(9) The notice mentioned in subsection (8) shall be served—
(a) where an agreement is come to under subsection (2), as
soon as may be; and
(b) where an agreement is come to under subsection (3)
or (4) and is not set aside under subsection (5), as soon
as may be after the expiry of the period mentioned in
subsection (5) or, if there is an unsuccessful application
to the Special Commissioners under subsection (5), as
soon as may be after the application has been refused.
Disposal of appeals
102. (1) Subject to subsection (1A) or (3), the Director General may
send an appeal forward to the Special Commissioners at any time
within the twelve-month period from the date of receipt of the notice
of appeal or, if an extension under subsection 101(1B) has been


granted, within the extended period if he is of the opinion that there is
no reasonable prospect of coming to an agreement with the appellant
in accordance with subsection 101(2) in respect of the appeal and if
subsections 101(3) and (4) are not applicable; and, where he sends an
appeal forward under this subsection, he shall give the appellant
written notice that he has done so.
(1A) Where a person has made an application to invoke a mutual
agreement procedure pursuant to an arrangement made under
section 132 and the ground in which the application is made is similar
with the appeal filed under this Act —
(a) no appeal shall be sent forward to the Special
Commissioners until the determination of the mutual
agreement procedure;
(b) the person may within thirty days from the determination
of the mutual agreement procedure request to the
Director General in writing to forward such appeal to the
Special Commissioners; and
(c) the Director General shall within three months after
receiving the request send the appeal forward to the
Special Commissioners.
(2) (Deleted by Act 600).
(3) No appeal shall be sent forward to the Special
Commissioners if the Director General and the appellant have or
are deemed to have come to an agreement in respect of it in
accordance with subsection 101(2), (3) or (4).
(4) Where an appeal is sent forward to the Special Commissioners
pursuant to this section, the appeal shall be sent forward in the manner
provided by Schedule 5 and that Schedule shall have effect for
regulating the hearing and determination of the appeal and otherwise
as provided therein.


Income Tax 311
(5) Where an appeal has been sent forward to the Special
Commissioners pursuant to this section—
(a) the Director General and the appellant at any time before
the hearing of the appeal by the Special Commissioners
is completed may come to an agreement of the kind
mentioned in subsection 101(2) with regard to the
assessment to which the appeal relates; or
(b) the appellant may at any time withdraw the appeal.
(6) Where the Director General and the appellant come to an
agreement under paragraph (5)(a), the Director General shall and the
appellant may, send a true copy of the agreement to the Special
Commissioners.
(7) Where the Special Commissioners are satisfied that the
Director General and the appellant have come to an agreement
under paragraph (5)(a) with regard to the assessment to which an
appeal relates—
(a) the proceedings before the Special Commissioners
relating to the appeal shall abate;
(b) the agreement shall have effect as if it had been come to
under subsection 101(2); and
(c) subsections 101(8) and (9) shall apply accordingly.
(8) Where the Special Commissioners are satisfied that the
appellant has withdrawn his appeal under paragraph (5)(b)—
(a) the proceedings before the Special Commissioners
relating to the appeal shall abate; and
(b) the assessment to which the appeal relates shall be final and
conclusive for the purposes of this Act, the Income Tax
Ordinance 1956 of Sabah [Sabah Ord. 29 of 1956], the
Inland Revenue Ordinance 1960 of Sarawak [Sarawak


Ord. 13 of 1960] or the Income Tax Ordinance 1947 of
West Malaysia [Ord. 48 of 1947], as the case may be.
(9) In this section “appeal” means an appeal against an assessment.
PART VII
COLLECTION AND RECOVERY OF TAX
Payment of tax
103. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2), tax payable under an
assessment for a year of assessment shall be due and payable on the
due date whether or not that person appeals against the assessment.
(1A) Where an assessment or additional assessment has been made
under section 91A, the tax or additional tax payable under the
assessment shall be due and payable on the day the amended return is
furnished whether or not that person appeals against the assessment or
additional assessment.
(2) Where an assessment is made under section 90(3), 91, 92
or 96A, or where an assessment is increased under section 101(2), the
tax payable under the assessment or increased assessment shall, on the
service of the notice of assessment or composite assessment or
increased assessment, as the case may be, be due and payable on the
person assessed at the place specified in that notice whether or not that
person appeals against the assessment or increased assessment.
(3) Subject to subsection (7), where any tax due and payable under
subsection (1) has not been paid by the due date, so much of the tax as
is unpaid upon the expiration of that date shall without any further
notice being served be increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of the
tax so unpaid, and that sum shall be recoverable as if it were tax due
and payable under this Act.
(4) (Deleted by Act 823).


Income Tax 313
(5) Subject to subsection (7), where any tax due and payable under
subsection (2) has not been paid within thirty days after the service of
the notice, so much of the tax as is unpaid upon the expiration of that
period shall without any further notice being served be increased by a
sum equal to ten per cent of the tax so unpaid, and that sum shall be
recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under this Act.
(6) (Deleted by Act 823).
(7) Where any tax is payable in accordance with subsection (1),
(1A) or (2), the Director General may allow the tax to be paid by
instalments in such amounts and on such dates as he may determine
and in the event of default in payment of any one instalment on the
date specified for payment the balance of the tax then outstanding shall
be due and payable on that date and shall without any further notice
being served be increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of that
balance, and that sum shall be recoverable as if it were tax due and
payable under this Act.
(8) (Deleted by Act 823).
(9) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where tax due
and payable is increased by a sum under subsection (3), (5)
or (7), the Director General may in his discretion for any good cause
shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the amount
remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay that amount.
(10) Where section 45(2) applies for a year of assessment, the
portion of the tax charged for that year upon the husband or the wife
in whose name the assessment was made which is attributable to the
total income for that year of the wife who elects or the husband who
elects, as the case may be, may, if necessary, be collected from the wife
who elects or the husband who elects; and this Part shall apply (with
any necessary modifications) as if, on the day on which a notice of
assessment or a notice of increased assessment for that year is served
on the husband or the wife that notice of assessment or notice of
increased assessment had been served on the wife who elects or the
husband who elects, as the case may be:


Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be construed as
conferring on the wife who elects or the husband who elects, as the
case may be, any right of appeal under section 99.
(11) For the purposes of subsection (10), the part of the tax charged
for a year of assessment upon the husband or the wife which is
attributable to the total income for that year of the wife who elects or
the husband who elects, as the case may be, shall be determined in
accordance with the formula—
A X C
B
where—
(a) in the case of the wife who elects—
A is that wife’s total income for a year of
assessment;
B is the aggregate of the husband’s and that wife’s
or wives’ total income; and
C is the tax charged for the year of assessment
where paragraph 45(2)(a) applies; or
(b) in the case of the husband who elects—
A is that husband’s total income for a year of
assessment;
B is the aggregate of the wife’s and that husband’s
total income; and
C is the tax charged for the year of assessment
where paragraph 45(2)(b) applies.
(12) For the purposes of this section, “due date” means—


Income Tax 315
(a) in the case of a company, trust body, co-operative
society or limited liability partnership the last day of the
seventh month from the date following the close of the
accounting period;
(b) in the case of a person referred to under paragraph
77(1)(a), 30 June in the year following the year of
assessment; and
(c) in any other case other than the cases referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b), 30 April in the year following the
year of assessment.
103A. (Deleted by Act A1151).
Tax payable notwithstanding institution of proceedings under any
other written law
103B. The institution of any proceedings under any other written law
against the Government or the Director General shall not relieve any
person from liability for the payment of any tax, debt or other sum for
which he is or may be liable to pay under this Part.
Recovery from persons leaving Malaysia
104. (1) The Director General, where he is of the opinion that any
person is about or likely to leave Malaysia without paying—
(a) all tax payable by him (whether or not due or due and
payable);
(b) all sums payable by him under subsection 103(3), (5)
or (7) or subsection 107B(3) or (4) or subsection 107C(9),
(10) or (10A); and


(c) all debts payable by him under subsection 107A(2)
or 109(2), 109B(2) or 109F(2),
may issue to any Commissioner of Police or Director of Immigration
a certificate containing particulars of the tax, sums and debts so
payable with a request for that person to be prevented from leaving
Malaysia unless and until he pays all the tax, sums and debts so payable
or furnishes security to the satisfaction of the Director General for their
payment.
(1A) The certificate referred to in subsection (1) may be issued to
any Commissioner of Police or Director of Immigration through an
electronic medium or by way of electronic transmission.
(2) Subject to any order issued or made under any written law
relating to banishment or immigration, any Commissioner of Police or
Director of Immigration who receives a request under subsection (1)
in respect of any person shall take or cause to be taken all such
measures (including the use of reasonable force and the seizure,
removal or retention of any certificate of identity and any passport, exit
permit or other travel document relating to that person) as may be
necessary to give effect to it.
(3) The Director General shall cause notice of the issue of a
certificate under subsection (1) to be served personally or by registered
post on the person to whom the certificate relates:
Provided that the non-receipt of the notice by that person shall not
invalidate anything done under this section.
(4) Where a person in respect of whom a certificate has been issued
under subsection (1)—
(a) produces a written statement signed on or after the date
of the certificate by the Director General or an
authorized officer to the effect that all the tax, sums and
debts specified in the certificate have been paid or that
security has been furnished for their payment; or


Income Tax 317
(b) pays all the tax, sums and debts specified in the
certificate to the officer in charge of a police station or
to an immigration officer,
the statement or the payment, as the case may be, shall be sufficient
authority for allowing that person to leave Malaysia.
(5) No legal proceedings shall be instituted or maintained against
the Government, a State Government, a police officer or any other
public officer in respect of anything lawfully done under this section
or subsection 115(2).
(6) In this section—
“Commissioner of Police” includes a Chief Police Officer;
“Director of Immigration” means the Director of Immigration in
Sabah, Sarawak or West Malaysia;
“immigration officer” means a public officer having official duties
in connection with the control of immigration into Malaysia or any part
of Malaysia;
“person” includes any person who is a director within the meaning
of section 75A.
Refusal of customs clearance in certain cases
105. (1) Where tax payable by a person who carries on the business
of transporting passengers or cargo by air or sea (or tax payable by an
agent of that person) has remained unpaid for more than three months
(whether that person has been assessed directly or the agent has been
assessed on his behalf) the Director General may with the approval of
the Minister issue to the customs authority a certificate containing the
name of that person or the agent, as the case may be, and particulars of
the tax in default; and the customs authority shall thereupon refuse
clearance from any port, aerodrome or airport in Malaysia to any ship


or aircraft wholly or partly owned or chartered by that person until the
tax is paid.
(2) No legal proceedings shall be instituted or maintained against
the Government, the customs authority or any public officer in respect
of a refusal of clearance under this section, nor shall the fact that a ship
or aircraft is detained under this section affect the liability of the owner,
charterer or agent to pay harbour or other dues and charges for the
period of detention.
(3) In this section “customs authority” means the Director General
of Customs and Excise, and includes the Regional Directors of
Customs in Sabah, Sarawak and West Malaysia and any other
authority by whom customs clearance may be granted.
Recovery by suit
106. (1) Tax due and payable may be recovered by the Government
by civil proceedings as a debt due to the Government.
(2) The Director General and all authorized officers shall be
deemed to be public officers authorized by the Minister under
subsection 25(1) of the Government Proceedings Act 1956 [Act 359],
in respect of all proceedings under this section.
(3) In any proceedings under this section the court shall not
entertain any plea that the amount of tax sought to be recovered is
excessive, incorrectly assessed, under appeal or incorrectly increased
under subsection 103(3), (5) or (7).
Power to call for bank account information for purpose of making
garnishee order application
106A. (1) Where civil proceedings have been instituted against a
person under section 106 and a judgement has been obtained against
the person, the Director General may by notice under his hand require
any financial institution to furnish within a time specified in the notice,


Income Tax 319
the bank account information of that person, if any, for the purpose of
making an application to court for a garnishee order.
(2) Where a financial institution is required to furnish bank account
information in accordance with subsection (1), that financial institution
shall not disclose to any person that such request was made to the
financial institution.
(3) In this section, “financial institution” means—
(a) any person licensed under the Financial Services Act
2013 to carry on a banking business in Malaysia;
(b) any person licensed under the Islamic Financial Services
Act 2013 to carry on an Islamic banking business in
Malaysia; or
(c) any development financial institution prescribed under
the Development Financial Institutions Act 2002 [Act
618].
Deduction of tax from emoluments and pensions
107. (1) Where any income in respect of gains or profits from an
employment or in respect of any pension, annuity or periodical
payment falling under paragraph 4(e) is payable to an individual, then,
if the Director General so directs, the person by whom the income is
payable shall make deductions out of the income on account of tax
which is or may be payable by that individual for any year of
assessment.
(2) Subject to any rules made under section 154, deductions under
this section on account of tax shall be made at such times and in such
amounts as the Director General may direct, whether or not the tax has
been assessed.
(3) In relation to any case, nothing in this section shall prevent the
collection of any tax (not being tax deducted in accordance with this


section) in accordance with section 103 or the payment of that tax
being enforced in accordance with section 106:
Provided that in any such case for the purposes of section 103 the
Director General shall determine the period within which that tax shall
be payable.
(4) An employer who fails to comply with subsection 83(2), (3), (4)
or (5) or this section with respect to an employee of his shall be liable,
in the case of a failure to comply with subsection 83(2), (3), (4) or (5),
to pay the full amount of tax due from the employee and, in the case
of a failure to comply with this section, to pay the amount of tax which
he has failed to deduct, and such amount of tax shall be a debt due from
that employer to the Government and shall be payable forthwith to the
Director General:
Provided that—
(a) the Director General shall apply any amount paid to or
recovered by him in pursuance of this subsection
towards payment of the tax payable by the employee;
and
(b) the employer may recover from the employee as a debt
due to the employer any amount which has been paid to
the Director General by the employer or recovered by
the Director General from the employer in pursuance of
this subsection.
(5) Where a person by whom any income of the kind mentioned in
paragraph 4(e) is payable fails to comply with this section with respect
to a recipient of that income, that person shall be liable to pay the
amount of tax which he has failed to deduct:
Provided that—
(a) the Director General shall apply any amount paid to or
recovered by him in pursuance of this subsection
towards payment of the tax payable by the recipient; and


Income Tax 321
(b) the person may recover from the recipient as a debt due
to that person any amount which has been paid to the
Director General by that person or recovered by the
Director General from that person in pursuance of this
subsection.
Deduction of tax from contract payment
107A. (1) Where any person (in this section referred to as “the
payer”) is liable to make contract payment to a non-resident contractor
in respect of services under a contract, he shall upon paying or
crediting such contract payment deduct therefrom tax at the rate of—
(a) ten per cent of the contract payment on account of tax
which is or may be payable by that non-resident
contractor for any year of assessment; and
(b) three per cent of the contract payment on account of
tax which is or may be payable by employees of that
non-resident contractor for any year of assessment,
and (whether or not that tax is so deducted) shall within one month
after paying or crediting such contract payment render an account and
pay the amount of that tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may—
(i) give notice in writing to the payer requiring him to
deduct and pay tax at some other rates or to pay or
credit the contract payment without deduction of
tax; or
(ii) under special circumstances, allow extension of
time for tax deducted to be paid over.
(2) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), that amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount which he fails to pay, and


that amount and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the
Government and shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
(3) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) the Director General shall apply the amount paid or
recovered under paragraph (1)(a) towards payment of
the tax payable for any year of assessment by the non-
resident contractor to whom the payer was liable to pay
the contract payment to which that amount relates;
(b) the Director General shall refund the amount paid or
recovered under paragraph (1)(b) to the non-resident
contractor to whom the payer was liable to pay the
contract payment to which that amount relates as and
when the Director General deems appropriate; and
(c) if the payer has not deducted any amount in paying the
contract payment with respect to which the amount
relates, he may recover the amount from the non-resident
contractor as a debt due to the payer.
(4) In relation to any case, nothing in paragraph (1)(b) shall prevent
the deduction of any tax (not being tax deducted in accordance with
this subsection) in accordance with section 107.
(4A) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (1) is increased by a sum under
subsection (2), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(5) In this section—


Income Tax 323
“contract payment” means any payment made for services under a
contract to the non-resident contractor or his agent or any other person
acting on his behalf;
“contract project”, in relation to any non-resident contractor,
includes any undertaking, project or scheme, being an undertaking,
project or scheme carried on, carried out or performed in Malaysia;
“non-resident contractor” means any person who is not resident in
Malaysia within the meaning of section 7 or 8 and who, under a
contract or a subsidiary contract (not being a contract of service or
apprenticeship) or an agreement or arrangement undertakes (otherwise
than as an employee) any services under a contract;
“person” includes a partnership;
“professional service”, in relation to any non-resident contractor,
includes any advisory, consultancy, technical, industrial, commercial
or scientific service;
“services under a contract”, in relation to any non-resident
contractor, means the performing or rendering of any work or
professional service in Malaysia, being work or professional service in
connection with, or in relation to, any contract project.
Payment by instalments
107B. (1) Subject to this section, every person chargeable to tax for
a year of assessment, other than a company, trust body, co-operative
society or limited liability partnership to which section 107C applies
shall make payment by instalments on account of tax, excluding tax in
respect of gains or profits from an employment, which is or may be
payable by that person for that year of assessment, at such times and
in such amounts as the Director General may direct, whether or not the
tax has been assessed.
(2) In determining the amount to be paid under subsection (1), the
Director General may take into consideration the tax assessed, if any,


in respect of the person for the year of assessment preceding that year
of assessment:
Provided that the Director General may, upon an application made
by the person once not later than the thirtieth day of June or once not
later than the thirty first day of October, or both in that year of
assessment, vary the amount to be paid by instalments on account of
tax and the number of instalments.
(3) Where any instalment amount due and payable on the date
specified by the Director General pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) has
not been paid within thirty days of the due date, the amount unpaid
shall, without any further notice being served, be increased by a sum
equal to ten per cent of the amount unpaid, and that sum shall be
recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under this Act:
Provided that, where the amount unpaid is subsequently paid, the
Director General may treat it as having been paid on its due date.
(4) In any case to which the proviso to subsection (2) applies, where
the tax payable under an assessment for that year of assessment
exceeds the total of the instalments payable and the difference is more
than thirty per cent of the tax payable under the assessment, then,
without any further notice being served, the amount of the difference
which exceeds thirty per cent of the tax payable under the assessment
shall be increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of that amount of the
difference, and that sum shall be recoverable as if it were tax due and
payable under this Act:
Provided that in the case of an individual whose income includes
gains or profits from an employment, the tax payable under an
assessment for that year of assessment shall be reduced by the amount
of tax which is attributable to those gains or profits.
(4A) For the purposes of subsection (4), the amount of tax which is
attributable to the income in respect of gains or profits from an
employment of an individual shall be determined in accordance with
the formula—


Income Tax 325
A X C
B
where A is his statutory income in respect of gains or profits
from employment for a year of assessment;
B is his total income for that year of assessment; and
C is his tax payable for that year of assessment.
(5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the collection of any
tax from a person to whom this section applies in accordance with
section 103 or the payment of that tax being enforced in
accordance with section 106:
Provided that in any such case for the purposes of section 103 the
Director General shall determine the period within which that tax shall
be payable.
(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
of instalments unpaid or the amount of the difference in tax is increased
by a sum under subsection (3) or (4), as the case may be, the Director
General may in his discretion for any good cause shown remit the
whole or any part of that sum and, where the amount remitted has been
paid, the Director General shall repay the same.
Estimate of tax payable and payment by instalments for
companies
107C. (1) Every company, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society shall for each year of assessment furnish to the
Director General an estimate of its tax payable.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (4)(a) and subsection (4A), the
estimate of tax payable for a year of assessment shall be made in the
prescribed form and furnished to the Director General not later than
thirty days before the beginning of the basis period for that year of
assessment.


(3) The estimate of tax payable for a year of assessment shall not be
less than eighty-five per cent of the revised estimate of tax payable for
the immediately preceding year of assessment or if no revised estimate
is furnished, shall not be less than eighty-five per cent of the estimate
of tax payable for the immediately preceding year of assessment.
(4) Where a company, other than a company to which
subsection (4A) applies, limited liability partnership, trust body or
co-operative society first commences operation in a year of
assessment and the basis period for that year is not less than six
months—
(a) the estimate of its tax payable for that year of assessment
shall be made in the prescribed form and furnished to the
Director General within three months from the date of
commencement of operations; and
(b) subsections (2) and (3) shall apply to the company, other
than a company to which subsection (4A) applies, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society
beginning from the second year of assessment.
(4A) Subject to subsections (4B) and (4C), where a company resident
and incorporated in Malaysia first commences operation in a year of
assessment, subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall not apply to the company—
(a) for that year of assessment and the immediate following
year of assessment;
(b) where the company has no basis period for that year of
assessment, for the immediate two following years of
assessment:
Provided that at the beginning of the basis period for
the years of assessment referred to in paragraph (a) or
for the two following years of assessment referred to in
paragraph (b), the paid-up capital of that company in
respect of ordinary shares is two million five hundred
thousand ringgit and less; or


Income Tax 327
(c) where the company has no basis period for that year of
assessment and for the immediate following year of
assessment, for that year of assessment and the
immediate two following years of assessment:
Provided that at the commencement of the operation
and at the beginning of the immediate two following
years of assessment the paid up capital of the company
in respect of ordinary shares is two million five hundred
thousand ringgit and less.
(4B) The provision of subsection (4A) shall not apply to a company
referred to in that subsection if more than—
(a) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary
shares of the company is directly or indirectly owned by
a related company;
(b) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary
shares of the related company is directly or indirectly
owned by the first mentioned company; or
(c) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary
shares of the first mentioned company and the related
company is directly or indirectly owned by another
company.
(4C) For the purpose of subsection (4B), “related company” means
a company which has a paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
more than two million and five hundred thousand ringgit at the
beginning of the basis period for a year of assessment.
(5) Where an estimate of tax payable for a year of assessment has
been furnished in accordance with subsection (2), that amount shall be
paid to the Director General in equal monthly instalments determined
according to the number of months in the basis period and each
instalment shall be paid by the due date beginning from the second
month of the basis period for the year of assessment in respect of which
that estimate has been furnished.


(6) Where an estimate of tax payable for a year of assessment has
been furnished in accordance with paragraph (4)(a), that amount shall
be paid to the Director General in equal monthly instalments
determined according to the number of months in the basis period and
each instalment shall be paid by the due date beginning from the sixth
month of the basis period for the year of assessment in respect of which
that estimate has been furnished.
(7) A company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-
operative society may in the sixth month or the ninth month, or in both
months of the basis period for a year of assessment furnish to the
Director General a revised estimate of its tax payable for that year in
the prescribed form and—
(a) where the revised estimate exceeds the amount of
instalments which is payable in that year prior to that
revised estimate, the difference shall be payable in the
remaining instalments in equal proportion; or
(b) where the amount of instalments which is payable in that
year prior to that revised estimate exceeds the revised
estimate, the remaining instalments shall cease
immediately.
(7A) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (7), a company,
*limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society shall
furnish the estimate or revised estimate of its tax payable on an
electronic medium or by way of electronic transmission in accordance
with section 152A.
(8) Notwithstanding subsections (1), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7), the
Director General may direct such company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society to make payment by
instalments on account of tax which is or may be payable by that
company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative
society for a year of assessment at such times and of such amounts as
*NOTE—The words “limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative body” which were inserted
by Act 785 have effect for the year of assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment.


Income Tax 329
the Director General may direct and such account of tax shall be
deemed for the purpose of subsection (10) to be the revised estimate
of tax payable by that company, limited liability partnership, trust body
or co-operative society for that year of assessment:
Provided that, where the direction is made before the ninth month
of the basis period for that year of assessment, that company, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society may furnish a
revised estimate of its tax payable for that year of assessment in
accordance with subsection (7).
(8A) (Deleted by Act 719).
(8B) (Deleted by Act 719).
(9) Where any instalment amount due and payable has not been paid
by the due date or on the date specified by the Director General, the
amount unpaid shall, without any further notice being served, be
increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount unpaid, and the
amount unpaid and the increase on the amount unpaid shall be
recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under this Act.
(10) Where the tax payable under an assessment for a year of
assessment exceeds the revised estimate under subsection (7) or
deemed revised estimate under subsection (8), whichever is later, or if
no such revised estimate is furnished or there is no such deemed
revised estimate, the estimate of tax payable for that year of
assessment, by an amount of more than thirty per cent of the tax
payable under the assessment, then, without any further notice being
served, the difference between that amount and thirty per cent of the
tax payable under the assessment shall be increased by a sum equal to
ten per cent of the amount of that difference, and that sum shall be
recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under this Act.
(10A) Where for a year of assessment—
(a) no estimate is furnished by a company, limited
liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society


and no direction is given by the Director General to
make payment by instalment under subsection (8);
(b) no prosecution under section 120 has been instituted in
relation to failure to furnish such estimate; and
(c) tax is payable by that company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society pursuant to
an assessment for that year of assessment,
such tax payable shall without any further notice be increased by a sum
equal to ten per cent of the tax payable and that sum shall be
recoverable as if it were tax due and payable under this Act:
Provided that if that company, limited liability partnership, trust
body or co-operative society pays that sum or, where the sum is
remitted under subsection (11), that company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society shall not be liable to be
charged on the same facts with an offence under section 120.
(11) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the estimate
of tax payable for a year of assessment is increased by a sum under
subsection (9), (10) or (10A), the Director General may in his discretion
for any good cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and,
where the amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall
repay the same.
(11A) Nothing in this section shall prevent the collection of any tax
from a person to whom this section applies in accordance with
section 103 or the payment of that tax being enforced in accordance
with section 106.
(11B) Where there is a failure by a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society to make up its accounts
ending on the corresponding day in the following basis year pursuant
to subsection 21A(3) and the company, limited liability partnership,
trust body or co-operative society fails to give a notification in
accordance with subsection 21A(3A), any amount of increase or sum
that had been imposed under this section based on the accounting


Income Tax 331
period prior to the new accounts as mentioned in subsection 21A(3A)
shall continue to be recoverable as if it were tax due and payable from
the company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative
society to the Government.
(12) For the purposes of this section—
“due date” means the fifteenth day of a calendar month;
“revised estimate” means a revised estimate made in the ninth month
of the basis period or if there is no revised estimate made in the ninth
month of the basis period, the revised estimate made in the sixth month
of the basis period.
Deduction of tax from payment made to agent, etc.
107D. (1) Where a company, in this section referred to as the payer,
is liable to make payments in monetary form to an agent, a dealer or a
distributor at any time in a basis year for a year of assessment arising
from sales, transactions or schemes carried out by that agent, dealer or
distributor, the payer shall upon paying or crediting such payments in
a calendar month deduct therefrom tax at the rate of two per cent of the
payments on account of tax for that year of assessment which is or may
be payable by that agent, dealer or distributor and, whether or not that
tax is so deducted, shall not later than the end of the following calendar
month after paying or crediting such payments render an account and
pay the amount of that tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may—
(a) give notice in writing to the payer requiring the payer to
deduct and pay tax at some other rates or to pay or credit
the payments without deduction of tax; or
(b) under special circumstances, allow extension of time for
tax deducted to be paid over.


(2) Subsection (1) shall apply if the total sum of payments, whether
in monetary form or otherwise, received by that agent, dealer or
distributor from the payer in the immediately preceding basis year for
a year of assessment arising from sales, transactions or schemes carried
out by that agent, dealer or distributor is more than one hundred
thousand ringgit.
(3) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), the amount which the payer fails to pay shall be
increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount which the payer
fails to pay, and that amount and the increased sum shall be a debt due
from the payer to the Government and shall be payable forthwith to the
Director General.
(4) Pursuant to this section, where any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) the Director General shall apply the amount paid or
recovered under subsection (1) towards payment of the
tax payable for any year of assessment by that agent,
dealer or distributor to whom the payer was liable to
make payments in monetary form to which that amount
relates; and
(b) if the payer has not deducted any amount upon making
the payments with respect to which the amount relates,
the payer may recover the amount from that agent, dealer
or distributor as a debt due to the payer.
(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (1) is increased by a sum under
subsection (3), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(6) In this section, “agent”, “dealer” or “distributor” means any
individual resident who is authorized by a company to act as its agent,


Income Tax 333
dealer or distributor, and who receives payments, whether in monetary
form or otherwise, from the company arising from sales, transactions
or schemes carried out by him as its agent, dealer or distributor.
Non-deduction of tax from dividend
*108. Where a dividend is paid or credited by a company to any of its
shareholders in the basis period for a year of assessment, the company
shall not be entitled to deduct tax from such dividend paid or credited.
Deduction of tax from interest or royalty in certain cases
109. (1) Where any person (in this section referred to as the payer) is
liable to pay interest or royalty derived from Malaysia to any other
person not known to him to be resident in Malaysia, other than interest
or royalty attributable to a business carried on by such other person in
Malaysia, he shall upon paying or crediting the interest (other than
interest on an approved loan or interest of the kind referred to in
paragraph 33, 33A, 33B, 35 or 35A of Part I, Schedule 6) or royalty
deduct therefrom tax at the rate applicable to such interest or royalty,
and (whether or not that tax is so deducted) shall within one month
after paying or crediting the interest or royalty render an account and
pay the amount of that tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances
allow extension of time for tax deducted to be paid over.
(2) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), that amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount which he fails to pay, and
that amount and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the
Government and shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
*NOTE–see sections 30-32 of Act 773 for explanations on saving and transitional provisions relating to
the 108 balance.


(3) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) the Director General shall, in the manner provided by
section 110, apply that amount towards payment of the
tax charged on the person to whom the payer was liable
to pay the interest or royalty to which that amount
relates; and
(b) if the payer has not deducted that amount in paying the
interest or royalty with respect to which that amount
relates, he may recover that amount from that person as
a debt due to the payer.
(3A) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (1) is increased by a sum under
subsection (2), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(4) In this section, “person” includes a partnership.
Application of sections 109 and 110 to income derived by a public
entertainer
109A. The provisions of sections 109 and 110 shall apply mutatis
mutandis to remuneration or other income in respect of services
performed or rendered in Malaysia by a public entertainer.
Deduction of tax from special classes of income in certain cases
derived from Malaysia
109B. (1) Where any person (in this section referred to as “the
payer”) is liable to make payments to a non-resident—


Income Tax 335
(a) for services rendered by the non-resident person or his
employee in connection with the use of property or rights
belonging to, or the installation or operation of any plant,
machinery or other apparatus purchased from, such non-
resident;
(b) for any advice given, or assistance or services rendered
in connection with the management or administration of
any scientific, industrial or commercial undertaking,
venture, project or scheme;
(c) for rent or other payments made under any agreement or
arrangement for the use of any moveable property,
which is deemed to be derived from Malaysia, he shall, upon paying
or crediting the payments, deduct therefrom tax at the rate applicable
to such payments, and (whether or not that tax is so deducted) shall
within one month after paying or crediting such payment, render an
account and pay the amount of that tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances
allow extension of time for tax deducted to be paid over.
(2) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), that amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount which he fails to pay, and
that amount and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the
Government and shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
(3) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) the Director General shall, in the manner provided by
section 110, apply that amount towards payment of the
tax charged on the person to whom the payer was liable
to pay the payments to which the amount relates; and


(b) if the payer has not deducted that amount in paying the
payment under subsection (1) with respect to which the
amount relates, he may recover that amount from that
person as a debt due to the payer.
(3A) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (1) is increased by a sum under
subsection (2), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(4) In this section, “person” includes a partnership.
Deduction of tax from interest paid to a resident
109C. (1) Where any person (in this section referred to as “the
payer”) is liable to pay interest (other than interest exempt from tax
under this Act or any order made thereto) accruing in or derived from
Malaysia to an individual resident in Malaysia, he shall upon paying
or crediting such interest deduct therefrom tax at the rate applicable to
such interest, and (whether or not that tax is so deducted) shall within
one month after paying or crediting the interest render an account and
pay the amount of that tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances,
allow extension of time for tax deducted to be paid over.
(2) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), the amount which he fails to pay shall be a debt due
from him to the Government and shall be payable forthwith to the
Director General.
(3) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer and if the payer has not deducted that
amount in paying the payment under subsection (1) with respect to
which the amount relates, he may recover that amount from that
individual as a debt due to the payer.


Income Tax 337
(4) In this section “person” refers to a bank or Islamic bank licensed
under the Financial Services Act 2013 or the Islamic Financial
Services Act 2013, as the case may be, a registered co-operative
society, Bank Simpanan Nasional, Bank Pertanian Malaysia,
*Lembaga Urusan Tabung Haji, Malaysia Building Society Berhad, or
any other institution that may be approved by the Minister.
Deduction of tax on the distribution of income of a unit trust
109D. (1) This section shall only apply to income of a unit trust
which is exempt under section 61A.
(2) Where a unit trust (in this section referred to as the payer)
distributes income to a unit holder other than a unit holder which is a
resident company which is deemed to be derived from Malaysia, the
payer shall upon distributing the income, deduct therefrom tax at the
rate applicable to such income and shall within one month after
distributing such income, render an account and pay the amount of that
tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances
allow extension of time for tax deducted to be paid over.
(3) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (2), that amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of that amount, and the amount which he
fails to pay and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the
Government and shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
(4) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) (Deleted by Act 831);
*NOTE—Previously known as the “Lembaga Urusan dan Tabung Haji”–see subsection 3(1) and
paragraph 47(b) of the Tabung Haji Act 1995 [Act 535].


(b) if the payer has not deducted that amount in distributing
the income under subsection (2) with respect to which that
amount relates, he may recover that amount from that unit
holder as a debt due to the payer.
(4A) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (2) is increased by a sum under
subsection (3), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(5) (Deleted by Act 831).
Deduction of tax on distribution of income of unit trust to unit
holder other than individual
109DA. (1) This section shall only apply to income of a unit trust that
is a retail money market fund exempt under paragraph 35A of
Schedule 6 in respect of income distributed to a unit holder other than
an individual.
(2) Where a unit trust, in this section referred to as the payer,
distributes income which is derived from Malaysia to a unit holder, the
payer shall upon distributing the income, deduct therefrom tax at the
rate applicable to such income and shall within one month after
distributing such income, render an account and pay the amount of that
tax to the Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances
allow extension of time for tax deducted to be paid over.
(3) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (2), that amount which the payer fails to pay shall be
increased by a sum equal to ten per cent of that amount, and the amount
which the payer fails to pay and the increased sum shall be a debt due
from the payer to the Government and shall be payable forthwith to the
Director General.


Income Tax 339
(4) Pursuant to this section, where any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) in relation to a resident unit holder, the Director General
shall, in the manner provided by section 110, apply that
amount towards payment of the tax charged on the unit
holder to whom the payer distributes income to which that
amount relates; and
(b) if the payer has not deducted that amount in distributing
the income under subsection (2) with respect to which that
amount relates, the payer may recover that amount from
that unit holder as a debt due to the payer.
(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (2) is increased by a sum under
subsection (3), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(6) Section 110 shall apply mutatis mutandis to tax deducted under
this section other than to tax deducted in respect of a non-resident unit
holder.
Deduction of tax on the distribution of income of a family fund,
etc.
109E. (1) This section shall only apply to profits distributed or
credited out of family fund, family retakaful fund or general fund under
section 60AA where such profits have been claimed as a deduction
under subparagraph (3)(b)(ii), (4)(b)(ii), (5)(b)(vii) or (7)(b)(vii) of
that section.
(2) Where a takaful operator (in this section referred to as “the
payer”) distributes or credits any amount of income to a participant
other than participant which is a resident company which is deemed to


be derived from Malaysia, the payer shall upon distributing or
crediting the amount—
(a) deduct from the proportion of that amount, tax at the rate
applicable to that proportion; and
(b) whether or not that tax is so deducted, within one month
after distributing or crediting such amount, render an
account and pay the amount of tax to the Director General.
(3) The Director General may in relation to subsection (2) under
special circumstances allow extension of time for the amount of tax
deducted to be paid over.
(4) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (2), that amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount which he fails to pay, and
that amount and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the
Government and shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
(5) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer and if the payer has not deducted that amount in
distributing the income under subsection (2) with respect to which that
amount relates, the payer may recover that amount from that
participant as a debt due to the payer.
(6) The proportion of amount referred to in subsection (2) shall be
ascertained in accordance with the formula prescribed by the Minister.
(7) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount due
from the payer under subsection (2) is increased by a sum under
subsection (4), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the same.


Income Tax 341
Deduction of tax from gains or profits in certain cases derived
from Malaysia
109F. (1) Where any person (in this section referred to as “the payer”)
is liable to make payments to a non-resident in relation to any gains or
profits falling under paragraph 4(f) which is derived from Malaysia, he
shall upon paying or crediting such payments deduct therefrom tax at
the rate applicable to such payments, and (whether or not that tax is so
deducted) shall within one month after paying or crediting such
payments render an account and pay the amount of that tax to the
Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances
allow extension of time for the amount of tax deducted to be paid over.
(2) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), the amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by a sum
equal to ten per cent of the amount which he fails to pay, and that amount
and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the Government and
shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
(3) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer—
(a) the Director General shall, in the manner provided by
section 110, apply that amount towards payment of the tax
charged on the person to whom the payer was liable to pay
the payments to which the amount relates; and
(b) if the payer has not deducted that amount in paying the
payment under subsection (1) with respect to which the
amount relates, he may recover that amount from that
person as a debt due to the payer.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (1) is increased by a sum under
subsection (2), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the


amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(5) Section 110 shall apply mutatis mutandis to tax deducted under
this section.
Deduction of tax from income derived from withdrawal of a
deferred annuity or a private retirement scheme
109G. (1) Where a person (in this section referred to as “the payer”)
makes payment to an individual (in this section referred to as “the
recipient”) in relation to a withdrawal from a deferred annuity or a
private retirement scheme before reaching the age of fifty-five (other
than by reason of permanent total disablement, serious disease, mental
disability, death, permanently leaving Malaysia, healthcare or housing,
for which such withdrawal shall be in compliance with the criteria as
set out in the relevant guidelines of the Securities Commission from a
fund administered by that payer under a deferred annuity scheme or a
private retirement scheme, the payer shall upon paying the amount,
deduct from that amount, tax at a rate applicable to such payment, and
(whether or not tax is so deducted) shall within one month after paying
the amount render an account and pay the amount of that tax to the
Director General:
Provided that the Director General may under special circumstances
allow extension of time for the amount of tax deducted to be paid over.
(2) Where the payer fails to pay any amount due from him under
subsection (1), the amount which he fails to pay shall be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of the amount which he fails to pay, and
that amount and the increased sum shall be a debt due from him to the
Government and shall be payable forthwith to the Director General.
(3) Where in pursuance of this section any amount is paid to the
Director General by the payer or recovered by the Director General
from the payer and if the payer has not deducted that amount in paying
the amount under subsection (1) with respect to which that amount


Income Tax 343
relates, the payer may recover that amount from the recipient as a debt
due to the payer.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections, where the amount
due from the payer under subsection (1) is increased by a sum under
subsection (2), the Director General may in his discretion for any good
cause shown remit the whole or any part of that sum and, where the
amount remitted has been paid, the Director General shall repay the
same.
(5) In this section, “payer” refers to —
(a) in the case of a deferred annuity, a life insurer or takaful
operator licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013 or
the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013; or
(b) in the case of a private retirement scheme, a private
retirement scheme provider as approved under
section 139Q of the Capital Markets and Services Act 2007
to provide and manage a private retirement scheme.
Appeal by the payer
109H. (1) A payer referred to in sections 109, 109B or 109F may,
within thirty days (or any period extended by the Director General)
from the date an amount is due to be made to the Director General
under that section, appeal to the Special Commissioners by reason that
such amount is not liable to be paid under this Act and the provision
of this Act relating to appeals shall apply accordingly with any
necessary modification.
(2) Where an amount is due from the payer to a non-resident person,
this section shall not apply or cease to apply if —
(a) an appeal has been filed to the Special Commissioners by
the non-resident person to whom the payer was liable to
pay the amount of interest or royalty, or payment under


section 4A or paragraph 4(f), of which the amount due
under subsection (1) relates;
(b) such payment to the non-resident made by the payer is
disallowed as deduction under section 39 in arriving at the
adjusted income of the payer; or
(c) the amount due under subsection (1) has not been made to
the Director General by the payer.
Set off for tax deducted
110. (1) Any tax which is deducted from any interest or royalty under
section 109 or from any payment for services, technical advice,
assistance, or rental or other income under section 109B (including any
amount recovered by the Director General pursuant to
subsection 109(2) or 109B(2) but excluding any increase thereof) shall,
when the interest, royalty, or payment for services, technical advice,
assistance, or rental or other income is gross income of a person from
a source of his for the basis period for a year of assessment, be set off
against the tax charged on his chargeable income, if any, for that year.
(1A) (Deleted by Act 683).
(1B) (Deleted by Act A1093).
(1C) (Deleted by Act A1093).
(1D) (Deleted by Act A1093).
(1E) (Deleted by Act A1093).
(2) Subject to this section, where in relation to a year of assessment
Chapter 3 of Part III has by virtue of section 41 applied to an
accounting period as if it were the basis period for that year of
assessment and any interest, royalty, services, technical advice,
assistance, rental or other income has been included in the gross


Income Tax 345
income of a person from a business of his for that accounting period,
then—
(a) if that accounting period falls wholly within the basis
period for that year of assessment, for the purposes of
subsection (1), the interest, royalty, services, technical
advice, assistance, rental or other income shall be treated
as having been included in that person’s gross income
from that business for that basis period for that year and
regard shall be had to the tax deducted from that interest,
royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or
other income;
(b) if that accounting period overlaps the basis period for that
year of assessment—
(i) the interest, royalty, services, technical advice,
assistance, rental or other income and the tax
deducted therefrom shall be apportioned in the
manner provided by subsection 41(2);
(ii) the part of the dividend, interest, royalty, services,
technical advice, assistance, rental or other income
so apportioned to the overlapping part of that
accounting period shall be treated for the purposes
of subsection (1) as interest, royalty, services,
technical advice, assistance, rental or other income
included in that person’s gross income from that
business for the basis period for that year; and
(iii) in relation to that part of the interest, royalty,
services, technical advice, assistance, rental or other
income so included regard shall be had for the
purposes of subsection (1) to the part of that tax so
apportioned to the overlapping part of that
accounting period.
(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), where any interest,
royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or other income is


included in the gross income of a person from a business for the basis
period for a year of assessment or, by virtue of section 41, for an
accounting period as if it were the basis period for that year, then, if
that interest, royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or
other income or a portion thereof is paid to that person after the end of
that basis period or accounting period, as the case may be, that tax
deducted therefrom shall be set off against any tax charged on his
chargeable income for the year of assessment following that in which
the interest, royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or
other income or the portion thereof was paid or, where there is no tax
so payable, the tax so deducted shall be repaid to him.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), where by reason of any
provisions of sections 55 to 59 any interest, royalty, services, technical
advice, assistance, rental or other income is gross income of a person
from a proprietorship or continuing proprietorship business of his for
the basis period for a year of assessment, there shall be set off under
subsection (1) only so much of the tax so deducted from that interest,
royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or other income
as bears the same proportion to the amount of that tax as his share of
the divisible income from that business for that period bears to the
divisible income from that business for that period.
(5) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), where by reason of
any provisions of sections 55 to 59 any interest, royalty, services,
technical advice, assistance, rental or other income in gross income of
a person from a proprietorship or continuing proprietorship business
of his for an accounting period, then, with respect to the amount of the
tax to which regard would be had under those subsections in relation
to that person but for this subsection, regard shall be had only to the
same proportion of that amount as his share of the divisible income
from that business for that period bears to the divisible income from
that business for that period.
(6) In any case to which subsection (4) or (5) applies, subsection (3)
if applicable shall be modified accordingly.
(7) For the purposes of the foregoing subsections, where only a
portion of any interest, royalty, services, technical advice, assistance,


Income Tax 347
rental or other income is gross income of a person from a source of his
for the basis period for a year of assessment or for an accounting period
treated as if it were the basis period for that year, regard shall be had
to that portion and to so much of any tax deducted from that interest,
royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or other income
as bears the same proportion to that tax as the amount of that portion
of the interest, royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or
other income bears to the whole of the interest, royalty, services,
technical advice, assistance, rental or other income, as the case may
be; and accordingly, where this subsection applies—
(a) the reference in subparagraph (2)(b)(i) to the interest,
royalty, services, technical advice, assistance, rental or
other income shall be taken to be a reference to that
portion thereof;
(b) the reference in subparagraph (2)(b)(i) to the tax shall be
taken to be a reference to so much thereof as aforesaid; and
(c) the reference in subparagraph (2)(b)(ii) to the part of the
interest, royalty, services, technical advice, assistance,
rental or other income shall be taken to be to the part of
that portion of the interest, royalty, services, technical
advice, assistance, rental or other income.
(8) Any tax which is applicable to the statutory income of a person
from his ordinary source in relation to a trust for a year of assessment
(not being a share of the total income of the trust body for that year
which has been deducted from that total income in ascertaining the
chargeable income of the trust body for that year) shall, where the
statutory income is included in the aggregate income of a person for a
year of assessment, be set off against the tax charged on the chargeable
income, if any, of that person for that year of assessment.
(9) For the purposes of subsection (8), the tax applicable to the
statutory income for a year of assessment of a person from his ordinary
source in relation to a trust shall be taken for that year to be a sum
which bears the same proportion to the amount of tax chargeable on
the chargeable income of the trust body of the trust for that year (or,


where the trust body is entitled to any relief under section 132 or 133
for that year, to that amount less the amount of that relief) as that
person’s statutory income from his ordinary source for that year bears
to the total income of the trust body for that year.
(9A) Notwithstanding subsections (8) and (9), where income
distributed by a unit trust is included in the aggregate income of a
person for a year of assessment, the tax chargeable on the unit trust and
attributable to the income included in the aggregate income
of that person (or, where the trust is entitled to any relief under
section 132 or 133, that tax less the amount of that relief) shall be set
off against the tax charged on the chargeable income, if any, of that
person for that year of assessment.
(10) Where in any case to which subsection 68(4) applies any
income received by a receiver is distributed to any person entitled
thereto, and that income is gross income of that person from a source
of his for the basis period for a year of assessment, any tax paid by the
receiver and attributable to that gross income shall be set off against
the tax charged on that person’s chargeable income for that year (the
amount of any such tax which is so attributable being determined by
the Director General).
(11) Where tax is set off under this section against the tax charged
for any year of assessment or would have been so set off if there had
been tax so charged, the tax so set off or which would have been so set
off shall not be set off against the tax charged for any other year of
assessment.
(12) Where paragraph 45(2)(a) applies to an individual and to a wife
of his for a year of assessment, any reference in the foregoing
subsections to a person shall, in the application of those subsections
for that year to that individual and that wife, be taken to be a reference
to that individual including that wife as if she were that individual and
where paragraph 45(2)(b) applies, this subsection shall be applied
accordingly.
(13) (Deleted by Act 683).


Income Tax 349
110A. (Deleted by Act 683).
Set-off for tax charged on actuarial surplus
110B. (1) Notwithstanding section 110, where for a basis period for
a year of assessment an amount of actuarial surplus from the life fund
of an insurer is transferred to the shareholders’ fund pursuant to
subsection 60(3A) or (4A), any amount of tax charged on the portion of
that surplus shall be set-off against the tax charged on the chargeable
income from the shareholders’ fund of that insurer in respect of the life
business.
(2) Where—
(a) tax is set off under this section against the tax charged
on the chargeable income of an insurer from its
shareholders’ fund in respect of life business for a year
of assessment and the amount of the tax set-off exceeds
the tax charged for that year, the excess shall be
disregarded; or
(b) there is no tax charged for that year, so much of the
amount of tax that would otherwise be set-off but for the
absence of such tax charged shall be disregarded.
(3) For the purposes of this section, tax charged on the chargeable
income of an insurer from its shareholders’ fund in respect of life
business shall consist of an amount of tax before taking into account
the tax set-off under section 110.
(4) The portion of the surplus referred to in subsection (1) shall be
ascertained in accordance with the formula prescribed by the Minister.


Set-off for tax charged on actuarial surplus under takaful business
110C. (1) Notwithstanding section 110, where for a basis period for
a year of assessment an amount of actuarial surplus from the family
fund of a takaful operator is transferred to the shareholders’ fund
pursuant to subparagraph 60AA(9)(a)(vi) or 60AA(10)(a)(vi), any
amount of tax charged on the portion of that surplus shall be set off
against the tax charged on the chargeable income from the
shareholders’ fund of that operator in respect of the family business.
(2) Where—
(a) tax is set off under this section against the tax charged
on the chargeable income of an operator from its
shareholders’ fund in respect of family business for a
year of assessment and the amount of the tax set-off
exceeds the tax charged for that year, the excess shall be
disregarded; or
(b) there is no tax charged for that year, so much of the
amount of tax that would otherwise be set off but for the
absence of such tax charged shall be disregarded.
(3) For the purposes of this section, tax charged on the chargeable
income of an operator from its shareholders’ fund in respect of family
business shall consist of an amount of tax before taking into account
the tax set-off under section 110.
(4) The portion of the surplus referred to in subsection (1) shall be
ascertained in accordance with the formula prescribed by the Minister.
Refund of over-payments
111. (1) Subject to this section, where it is proved to the satisfaction
of the Director General that any person has paid tax for any year of
assessment (by deduction or otherwise) in excess of the amount
payable under this Act, that person shall be entitled to have the excess
refunded by the Government and, where that person is dissatisfied with


Income Tax 351
the amount to be refunded to him, he may within thirty days of being
notified of that amount appeal to the Special Commissioners as if the
notification were a notice of assessment, the provisions of this Act
relating to appeals applying accordingly within any necessary
modifications.
(1A) Where a person has furnished a return in accordance with
subsection 77(1) or section 77A to the Director General for a year of
assessment and that person has paid tax in excess of the amount payable—
(a) that return shall be deemed to be a notification under
subsection (1); and
(b) that person is deemed to have been notified of the excess
amount on the day that return is furnished.
(1B) Where subsection (1A) applies—
(a) the reference to tax shall be taken to be a reference to an
amount of tax set-off under section 110; and
(b) the reference to amount payable shall be taken to be a
reference to the amount of tax payable before taking into
account the tax set-off under section 110.
(2) No claim for repayment under this section shall be valid unless
it is made within five years after the end of the year of assessment to
which the claim relates or, where the claim relates to repayment of tax
charged by an assessment, within five years after the end of the year
of assessment within which that assessment was made.
(3) Nothing in this section shall operate—
(a) to extend any time limit for appeal, validate any appeal
which is otherwise invalid or authorize the revision of
any assessment or other matter which has become final
and conclusive; or


(b) to compel the Government to refund the excess amount of
tax paid (by deduction or otherwise) in respect of an
assessment unless the assessment has been finally
determined.
(4) The representative of a disabled or deceased person shall be
entitled to a refund under subsection (1) for the benefit of that person or
his estate of any excess within the meaning of that subsection, and for the
purposes of this subsection a payment of tax by the representative of such
a person shall be deemed to have been made by that person.
(4A) Any amount of excess in respect of tax payable for a year of
assessment which is to be refunded to a person under subsection (1)
may be utilized by the Director General for the payment of any other
amount of tax which is due and payable (including any amount of
instalments which are due and payable) by that person under this Act,
or under the Petroleum (Income Tax) Act 1967 or the Real Property
Gains Tax Act 1976.
(4B) Where amount of excess in respect of a person is ascertained in
accordance with subsection 50(4) of the Petroleum (Income Tax) Act
1967 or subsection 24(7A) of the Real Property Gains Tax Act 1976
such excess shall be applied for the payment of tax which is due and
payable (including any amount of instalments which are due and
payable) by that person under this Act.
(5) (Deleted by Act 683).
(6) In this section—
“disabled person” means a person who through incapacity,
bankruptcy or liquidation or for any other reason is unable to manage
his own affairs;
“representative” means in the case of a deceased person, his
executor, and, in the case of a disabled person, the guardian,
committee, assignee in bankruptcy, liquidator or other person who
manages or controls his estate, property, assets or affairs.


Income Tax 353
111A. (Deleted by Act 683).
PART VIIA
FUND FOR TAX REFUND
Establishment of Fund for Tax Refund
111B. (1) There is hereby established a fund, to be known as the
Fund for Tax Refund (in this section referred to as “the Fund”) which
shall be specified in and incorporated into the Second Schedule to the
Financial Procedure Act 1957 [Act 61].
(2) There shall be paid from time to time into the Fund such amount
of tax collected under this Act as may be authorized by the Minister.
(3) The moneys of the Fund shall be applied for the making of a
refund of an amount of tax paid in excess of the amount payable as
ascertained in section 111 of this Act or any other refund or payment
required to be paid out of the Fund as provided by any other written
law.
(4) The Fund shall be administered by the Accountant General of
Malaysia.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) and the
Financial Procedure Act 1957, the Minister may from time to time
authorize the payment into the Consolidated Revenue Account in the
Federal Consolidated Fund of all or any part of the moneys of the Fund.
Non applicability of section 14A of the Financial Procedure Act
111C. Section 14A of the Financial Procedure Act 1957 shall not
apply to any refund in excess of the amount payable as ascertained in
section 111.


Compensation for over-payment of tax
111D. (1) Subject to this section and subsection 111(4A), an amount
of compensation may be payable to a person if the amount refunded to
that person for a year of assessment under section 111 is made after—
(a) ninety days from the date a return for that year of
assessment is required to be furnished under this Act, in
the case of return furnished by way of electronic
transmission; or
(b) one hundred and twenty days from the date a return for
that year of assessment is required to be furnished under
this Act, in any other case.
(2) For the purposes of this section—
(a) the “amount refunded” refers to tax paid in accordance
with section 107, 107B or 107C for a year of assessment
in excess of tax payable, if any, for that year of
assessment as specified in a return furnished under
section 77 or 77A; and
(b) the amount of compensation shall be determined in
accordance with the following formula:
A x B x 2%
C
where A is the amount refunded under section 111
for a year of assessment;
B is the number of days beginning from the
first day after the period specified under
paragraph (1)(a) or (b), as the case may be,
until the day that amount is made to a
person; and


Income Tax 355
C is the number of days in a year.
(3) Without prejudice to sections 91 and 113, where the Director
General discovers that the whole or part of the compensation—
(a) is wrongly paid to a person, the Director General may
require from that person a return of such amount already
paid; or
(b) ought not to have been paid to that person by reason of
an incorrect return or incorrect information furnished by
that person, the Director General may require from that
person a return of such amount already paid and that
amount shall without any further notice be increased by
a sum equal to ten per cent of that amount which ought
not to have been paid,
and the amount of compensation wrongly paid or ought not to have
been paid and the sum increased shall be recoverable as if it were tax
due and payable under this Act.
(4) This section shall not apply—
(a) if a person fails to furnish return for a year of assessment
in accordance with section 77 or 77A;
(b) in respect of excess of amount payable referred to in
subsections 111(1A) and (1B); or
(c) if a person appeals against an assessment under
section 99.


PART VIII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
Failure to furnish return or give notice of chargeability
112. (1) Any person who makes default in furnishing a return in
accordance with subsection 77(1) or 77A(1) in respect of any one year
of assessment or in giving a notice in accordance with subsection 77(3)
shall, if he does so without reasonable excuse, be guilty of an offence
and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than two hundred
ringgit and not more than twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
(1A) Any person who makes default in furnishing a return in
accordance with subsection 77(1) or 77A(1) in respect of any year of
assessment for two years or more shall, if he does so without
reasonable excuse, be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be
liable to —
(a) a fine of not less than one thousand ringgit and not more
than twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months or to both; and
(b) a special penalty equal to treble the amount which the
Director General may, according to the best of his
judgment, determine as the tax charged on the
chargeable income of that person for those years of
assessment.
(2) In any prosecution under subsections (1) and (1A) the burden of
proving that a return has been made or a notice given shall be upon the
accused person.
(2A) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under
subsection (1), the court may make a further order that the person shall
comply with the relevant provision of this Act under which the offence
has been committed within thirty days, or such other period as the court
deems fit, from the date the order is made.


Income Tax 357
(3) Where in relation to a year of assessment a person makes default
in furnishing a return in accordance with subsection 77(1) or 77A(1) or
in giving a notice in accordance with subsection 77(3) and no
prosecution under subsection (1) or (1A) has been instituted in relation
to that default—
(a) the Director General may require that person to pay a
penalty equal to treble the amount of that tax which, before
any set-off, repayment or relief under this Act, is payable
for that year; and
(b) if that person pays that penalty (or, where the penalty is
abated or remitted under subsection 124(3), so much, if
any, of the penalty as has not been abated or remitted), he
shall not be liable to be charged on the same facts with an
offence under subsection (1) or (1A).
(3A) Where there is a failure by a company, limited liability
partnership, trust body or co-operative society to make up its accounts
ending on the corresponding day in the following basis year pursuant
to subsection 21A(3) and the company, limited liability partnership,
trust body or co-operative society fails to give a notification in
accordance with subsection 21A(3A), any penalty that had been
imposed under subsection (3) based on the accounting period prior to
the new accounts as mentioned in subsection 21A(3A) shall continue to
be recoverable under this Act.
(4) The Director General may require any person to pay an
additional amount of penalty in accordance with subsection (3) in
respect of any additional tax which is payable by that person for a year
of assessment.
Failure to furnish country-by-country report
112A. (1) Any person who makes default in furnishing a
country-by-country report in accordance with the relevant rules made
under paragraph 154(1)(c) to implement or facilitate the operation of
an arrangement having effect under section 132, 132A and 132B, where


such arrangement relates to the furnishing of a country-by-country
report, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable
to a fine of not less than twenty thousand ringgit and not more than one
hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
six months or to both.
(2) In any prosecution under subsection (1) the burden of proving
that a country-by-country report has been furnished shall be upon the
accused person.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under
subsection (1), the court may make a further order that the person shall
comply with the relevant provision of the rules under which the
offence has been committed within thirty days, or such other period as
the court deems fit, from the date the order is made.
Incorrect returns
113. (1) Any person who—
(a) makes an incorrect return by omitting or understating
any income of which he is required by this Act to make
a return on behalf of himself or another person; or
(b) gives any incorrect information in relation to any matter
affecting his own chargeability to tax or the
chargeability to tax of any other person,
shall, unless he satisfies the court that the incorrect return or incorrect
information was made or given in good faith, be guilty of an offence
and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than one
thousand ringgit and not more than ten thousand ringgit and shall pay
a special penalty of double the amount of tax which has been
undercharged in consequence of the incorrect return or incorrect
information or which would have been undercharged if the return or
information had been accepted as correct.
(2) Where a person—


Income Tax 359
(a) makes an incorrect return by omitting or understating any
income of which he is required by this Act to make a return
on behalf of himself or another person; or
(b) gives any incorrect information in relation to any matter
affecting his own chargeability to tax or the chargeability
to tax of any other person,
then, if no prosecution under subsection (1) has been instituted in
respect of the incorrect return or incorrect information, the Director
General may require that person to pay a penalty equal to the amount
of tax which has been undercharged in consequence of the incorrect
return or incorrect information or which would have been
undercharged if the return or information had been accepted as correct;
and, if that person pays that penalty (or, where the penalty is abated or
remitted under subsection 124(3), so much, if any, of the penalty as
has not been abated or remitted), he shall not be liable to be charged
on the same facts with an offence under subsection (1).
Incorrect returns, information returns or reports
113A. Any person who—
(a) makes an incorrect return, information return or report
by omitting the information required to be provided in
accordance with any rules made under paragraph
154(1)(c) to implement or facilitate the operation of an
arrangement having effect under section 132, 132A and
132B, where such arrangement relates to the automatic
exchange of information or the furnishing of a country-
by-country report, on behalf of himself or another
person; or
(b) gives any incorrect information in relation to any
information required to be provided in accordance with
any rules made under paragraph 154(1)(c) to implement
or facilitate the operation of an arrangement having
effect under section 132, 132A and 132B, where such


arrangement relates to the automatic exchange of
information or the furnishing of a country-by-country
report, on behalf of himself or another person,
shall, unless he satisfies the court that the incorrect return, information
return or report, or incorrect information was made or given in good
faith, be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine
of not less than twenty thousand ringgit and not more than one hundred
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both.
Failure to furnish contemporaneous transfer pricing
documentation
113B. (1) Any person who makes default in furnishing
contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation in respect of any year
of assessment, in accordance with any rules made under
paragraph 154(1)(ed) to implement and facilitate the operation of
section 140A, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be
liable to a fine not less than twenty thousand ringgit and not more than
one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both.
(2) In any prosecution under subsection (1), the burden of proving
that contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation has been
furnished shall be upon the accused person.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under
subsection (1), the court may make a further order that the person shall
comply with the relevant provisions of the rules under which the
offence has been committed within thirty days, or such other period as
the court deems fit, from the date the order is made.
(4) Where in relation to any year of assessment a person makes
default in furnishing contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation
in accordance with any rules made under paragraph 154(1)(ed) to
implement and facilitate the operation of section 140A, and no
prosecution under subsection (1) has been instituted in respect of the


Income Tax 361
default in furnishing contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation,
the Director General may by notice in writing or in the notice of
assessment require that person to pay a penalty of not less than twenty
thousand ringgit and not more than one hundred thousand ringgit and,
if that person pays that penalty, or where the penalty is abated or
remitted under subsection 124(3), so much, if any, of the penalty as
has not been abated or remitted, he shall not be liable to be charged on
the same facts with an offence under subsection (1).
(5) The person served with a notice in writing referred to in
subsection (4) may appeal to the Special Commissioners within thirty
days as if the notice was a notice of assessment and the provisions of
this Act relating to appeals shall apply accordingly with any necessary
modifications.
Wilful evasion
114. (1) Any person who wilfully and with intent to evade or assist
any other person to evade tax—
(a) omits from a return made under this Act any income
which should be included;
(b) makes a false statement or entry in a return made under
this Act;
(c) gives a false answer (orally or in writing) to a question
asked or request for information made in pursuance of
this Act;
(d) prepares or maintains or authorizes the preparation or
maintenance of false books of account or other false
records;
(e) falsifies or authorizes the falsification of books of
account or other records; or


(f) makes use or authorizes the use of any fraud, art or
contrivance,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
of not less than one thousand ringgit and not more than twenty
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
years or to both, and shall pay a special penalty of treble the amount of
tax which has been undercharged in consequence of the offence or
which would have been undercharged if the offence had not been
detected.
(1A) Any person who assists in, or advises with respect to, the
preparation of any return where the return results in an understatement
of the liability for tax of another person shall, unless he satisfies the
court that the assistance or advice was given with reasonable care, be
guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of not
less than two thousand ringgit and not more than twenty thousand
ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to
both.
(2) Where in any proceedings under this section it is proved that a
false statement or false entry (whether by omission or otherwise) has
been made in a return furnished under this Act by or on behalf of any
person or in any books of account or other records maintained by or on
behalf of any person, that person shall be presumed until the contrary is
proved to have made that false statement or entry with intent to evade tax.
Leaving Malaysia without payment of tax
115. (1) Any person who, knowing that a certificate has been issued
in respect of him under section 104, voluntarily leaves or attempts to
leave Malaysia without paying all the tax, sums and debts specified in
the certificate or furnishing security to the satisfaction of the Director
General for the payment thereof shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than two hundred ringgit
and not more than twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding six months or to both.


Income Tax 363
(2) A police officer or immigration officer may arrest without
warrant any person whom he reasonably suspects to be committing or
about to commit an offence under this section.
(3) In this section “immigration officer” has the same meaning as
in section 104.
Obstruction of officers
116. Any person who—
(a) obstructs or refuses to permit the entry of the Director
General or an authorized officer into any land, building
or place in pursuance of section 80;
(b) obstructs the Director General or an authorized officer in
the exercise of his functions under this Act;
(c) refuses to produce any book or other document in his
custody or under his control on being required to do so
by the Director General or an authorized officer for the
purposes of this Act;
(d) fails to provide reasonable facilities or assistance or both
to the Director General or an authorized officer in the
exercise of his powers under this Act; or
(e) refuses to answer any question relating to any of those
purposes lawfully asked of him by the Director General
or an authorized officer,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
of not less than one thousand ringgit and not more than ten thousand
ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both.


Breach of confidence
117. (1) Any classified person who in contravention of section 138—
(a) communicates classified material to another person; or
(b) allows another person to have access to classified
material,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
not exceeding four thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year or to both.
(1A) Any person who receives any classified material, knowing or
having reasonable ground to believe at the time when he receives it
that such classified material is communicated or disclosed to him in
contravention of this Act, shall not use the classified material, or
produce or disclose the classified material to any other person.
(1B) Any person who contravenes subsection (1A), shall be guilty
of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
four thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one
year or to both.
(2) In this section “classified material” and “classified person” have
the same meaning as in section 138.
Offences by officials
118. Any person having an official function under this Act who—
(a) otherwise than in good faith, demands from any person
an amount in excess of the tax or penalties due under this
Act;
(b) withholds for his own use or otherwise any portion of
any such tax or penalty collected or received by him;


Income Tax 365
(c) otherwise than in good faith, makes a false report or
return (orally or in writing) of the amount of any such
tax or penalty collected or received by him;
(d) defrauds any person, embezzles any money or otherwise
uses his position to deal wrongfully with the Director
General or any other person,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
not exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding three years or to both.
Unauthorized collection
119. Any person who, not being authorized under this Act to do so,
collects or attempts to collect tax or a penalty under this Act shall be
guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
exceeding twenty thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three years or to both.
Failure to keep records
119A. Any person who, without reasonable excuse —
(a) fails to comply with an order or a notice given under
subsection 82(3) or (5); or
(b) contravenes subsection 82(1), (1A), (6), (7) or (8),
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
of not less than three hundred ringgit and not more than ten thousand
ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both.


Failure to comply with rules made under paragraph 154(1)(c) on
mutual administrative assistance
119B. (1) Except as provided in section 112A, any person who fails
to comply with any rules made under paragraph 154(1)(c) to
implement or facilitate the operation of an arrangement having effect
under section 132, 132A and 132B, where such arrangement relates to
the automatic exchange of information or the furnishing of a country-
by-country report, shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on
conviction, be liable to a fine of not less than twenty thousand ringgit
and not more than one hundred thousand ringgit or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding six months or to both.
(2) In any prosecution under subsection (1), the burden of proving
that any rules made under paragraph 154(1)(c) to implement or
facilitate the operation of an arrangement having effect under
section 132, 132A and 132B, where such arrangement relates to the
automatic exchange of information or the furnishing of a
country-by-country report, has been complied with shall be upon the
accused person.
(3) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under
subsection (1), the court may make a further order that the person shall
comply with the relevant provision of the rules under which the
offence has been committed within thirty days or such other period as
the court deems fit, from the date the order is made.
Other offences
120. (1) Any person who without reasonable excuse—
(a) fails to comply with a notice given under section 78, 79,
subsection 80(3), section 81, subsection 84(1),
section 85, 87 or subsection 106A(1);
(b) fails to furnish a return in accordance with
subsection 83(1) or to prepare and render a statement in
accordance with subsection 83(1A) or 83A(1);


Income Tax 367
(c) fails to give the notice required by subsection 83(2), (3)
or (4);
(d) contravenes subsection 84(2), 86(1), section 89,
subsection 106A(2) or 153(1);
(e) fails to comply with a direction given under
subsection 83(5) or section 107;
(f) fails to furnish an estimate in accordance with
subsection 107C(2), 107C(3) or paragraph 107C(4)(a);
(g) (Deleted by Act 683);
(h) fails to furnish the correct particulars as required by the
Director General under paragraph 77(4)(b) or 77A(3)(b); or
(i) fails to notify the Director General as required by
subsection 21A(3A),
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
of not less than two hundred ringgit and not more than twenty
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both.
(2) Where a person has been convicted of an offence under
subsection (1), the court may make a further order that the person shall
comply with the relevant provision of this Act under which the offence
has been committed within thirty days, or such other period as the court
deems fit, from the date the order is made.
Additional provisions as to offences under sections 113, 115, 116,
118 and 120
121. (1) No proceedings for an offence under section 113, 115, 116,
118 or 120 shall be instituted more than twelve years after the offence
was committed.


(2) Any person who aids, abets or incites another person to commit
an offence under section 113, 115, 116 or 118 shall be deemed to have
committed the same offence and shall be liable to the same penalty.
Tax, etc., payable notwithstanding institution of proceedings
122. The institution of proceedings or the imposition of a penalty,
special penalty, fine or term of imprisonment under this Part shall not
relieve any person from liability for the payment of any tax (or any
penalty deemed under any other Part to be tax payable under this Act)
or any debt or other sum for which he is or may be liable or from
liability to make any return which he is required by this Act to make.
123. (Deleted by Act A1028).
Power to compound offences and abate or remit surcharge or
penalties
124. (1) Where any person has committed any offence under this
Act, the Director General may at any time before conviction compound
the offence and order that person to pay such sum of money, not
exceeding the amount of the maximum fine and any special penalty to
which that person would have been liable if he had been convicted of
the offence, as he thinks fit:
Provided that the Director General shall not exercise his powers
under this section unless that person in writing admits that he has
committed the offence and requests the Director General to deal with
the offence under this section.
(2) Where under this section the Director General compounds an
offence committed by any person and makes an order accordingly—
(a) the order shall be made in writing under the hand of the
Director General and there shall be attached to it the


Income Tax 369
written admission and request referred to in
subsection (1);
(b) the order shall specify—
(i) the offence committed;
(ii) the sum of money ordered to be paid; and
(iii) the date on which payment is to be made or the
dates on which instalments of that sum are to be
paid, as the case may be,
and, where the order provides for payment by
instalments and there is default in payment of any
instalments, the whole of the balance then outstanding
shall become due and payable forthwith;
(c) a copy of the order shall be given, if he so requests, to
the person who committed the offence;
(d) that person shall not be liable to any prosecution or, as
the case may be, any further prosecution in respect of the
offence and, if any such prosecution or further
prosecution is brought, it shall be a good defence for that
person to prove that the offence has been compounded
under this section;
(e) the order shall be final and shall not be subject to any
appeal;
(f) the order may be enforced in the same way as the
judgment of a subordinate court (as defined in Schedule
5) for the payment of the amount stated in the order or
the amount outstanding, as the case may be; and
(g) the order shall, on production to any court, be treated as
proof of the commission of the offence by that person
and of the other matters set out therein.


(3) The Director General may abate or remit any surcharge or
penalty imposed under this Act except a penalty imposed on
conviction.
Recovery of penalties imposed under Part VIII
125. (1) Special penalties imposed under subsection 112(1A), 113(1)
or 114(1) shall be recoverable in the same way as fines imposed on
conviction.
(2) Any penalty imposed on any person under subsection 44A(9),
112(3) or 113(2) shall be collected as if it were part of the tax payable
by that person, but shall not be treated as tax so payable for the
purposes of any provision of this Act other than sections 103 to 106.
Jurisdiction of subordinate court
126. Notwithstanding any other written law, a subordinate court (as
defined in Schedule 5) shall have power to try any offence under this
Act and on conviction to impose the full penalty therefor.
PART IX
EXEMPTIONS, REMISSION AND OTHER RELIEF
Exemptions from tax: general
127. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act but subject
to section 127A, any income specified in Part I of Schedule 6 shall,
subject to this section, be exempt from tax.
(2) The Dewan Rakyat may by resolution delete any paragraph or
item in Schedule 6 or add further paragraphs or items thereto.
(3) The Minister may by statutory order—


Income Tax 371
(a) provide that the interest payable on any loan charged on
the Consolidated Fund or on a State Consolidated Fund
shall be exempt from tax, either generally or in respect
of interest payable to persons of a particular class;
(b) exempt any class of persons from all or any of the
provisions of this Act, either generally or in respect of
any income of a particular kind or any class of income
of a particular kind;
(c) declare any part of the armed forces to be a reserve force
for the purposes of paragraph 9 of Part I of Schedule 6
in addition to the forces mentioned in that paragraph; or
(d) vary paragraph 18 of Part I of Schedule 6 by adding other
commodities to those mentioned in that paragraph or
deleting any of the commodities so mentioned.
(3A) The Minister may, in any particular case exempt any person
from all or any of the provision of this Act, either generally or in
respect of any income of a particular kind or any class of income of a
particular kind.
(4) Any orders made under subsection (3) shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat.
(5) Any income which is exempt from tax by virtue of this section
shall be disregarded for the purposes of this Act:
Provided that—
(a) this subsection shall not apply as respects section 107A,
109, 109B, 109D or 109DA; and
(b) any tax deducted under section 107A, 109, 109B, 109D
or 109DA, from any such income shall be refunded under
section 111.


(6) Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to exempt in the
hands of a recipient any income in respect of dividend, interest, bonus,
salary or wages paid wholly or in part out of income exempt from tax
by virtue of this section, unless that first-mentioned income is itself so
exempt.
Cessation of exemption
127A. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or any
other written law, where any income of a person is exempt by virtue
of a repealed law, and the exemption is deemed to have been made by
an order under section 127, that exemption shall cease.
(2) In this section, “repealed law” has the same meaning assigned
to it under Schedule 9.
128. (Deleted by Act 624).
Remission of tax
129. (1) The tax paid or payable by any person may be remitted
wholly or in part—
(a) on grounds of poverty, by the Director General; or
(b) on grounds of justice and equity, by the Minister,
and any tax so remitted shall not be regarded as tax payable for the
purposes of any other provision of this Act.
(2) Where a person granted remission under subsection (1) has paid
any of the tax to which the remission relates, he shall be entitled to
have the amount which he has paid refunded to him as if it were an
overpayment to which section 111 applies.


Income Tax 373
Other relief
129A. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Minister
may for the purposes of section 127 provide any relief, in relation to
the treatment of expenses, losses and capital allowances in arriving at
the chargeable income of a person, as he thinks fit, which is not
otherwise provided for in this Act.
130. (Deleted by Act 693).
Relief in respect of error or mistake
131. (1) If any person who has paid tax for any year of assessment
alleges that an assessment relating to that year is excessive by reason
of some error or mistake in a return or statement made by him for the
purposes of this Act and furnished by him to the Director General prior
to the assessment becoming final and conclusive, he may within five
years after the end of the year of assessment within which the
assessment was made make an application in writing to the Director
General for relief.
(2) On receiving an application under subsection (1) the Director
General shall inquire into the matter and, subject to this section, shall
give by way of repayment of tax such relief in respect of the alleged
error or mistake as appears to him to be just and reasonable.
(3) In determining any application under this section the Director
General shall have regard to all the relevant circumstances of the case
and in particular—
(a) shall consider whether the granting of relief would result
in the exclusion from charge to tax of income of the
applicant; and
(b) for that purpose may take into consideration the
chargeability of the applicant for years of assessment


other than the year to which the application relates and
assessment made upon him for those years.
(4) No relief shall be given under this section in respect of an error
or mistake as to the basis on which the chargeability of the applicant
ought to have been computed if the return or statement containing the
error or mistake was in fact made on the basis of, or in accordance
with, the practice of the Director General generally prevailing at the
time when the return or statement was made.
(5) An application under subsection (1) shall be as nearly as may be
in the same form as a notice of appeal under section 99; and, where the
applicant is aggrieved by the Director General’s decision on the
application—
(a) the applicant may, within six months after being
informed of the decision, request in the prescribed form
for the Director General to forward the application to the
Special Commissioners;
(b) the Director General shall within three months after
receiving the request send the application forward as if
he were sending an appeal forward pursuant to
section 102; and
(c) the application shall thereupon be deemed to be an
appeal and shall be disposed of accordingly.
Relief other than in respect of error or mistake
131A. (1) Where any person who has furnished to the Director
General a return for a year of assessment in accordance with
subsection 77(1) or 77A(1) and has paid tax for that year of assessment
alleges that the assessment relating to that year of assessment is
excessive by reason of—
(a) any exemption, relief, remission, allowance or deduction
granted for that year of assessment under this Act or any


Income Tax 375
other written law is published in the Gazette after the
year of assessment in which the return is furnished;
(b) the approval for any exemption, relief, remission,
allowance or deduction is granted after the year of
assessment in which the return is furnished; or
(c) a deduction not allowed in respect of payment not due to
be paid under subsection 107A(2), 107D(3) or 109(2),
section 109A, or subsection 109B(2) or 109F(2) on the
day the return is furnished,
the person may make an application in writing to the Director General
for relief.
(2) The application under subsection (1) shall be made—
(a) in respect of paragraphs (1)(a) and (b), within five years
after the end of the year the exemption, relief, remission,
allowance or deduction is published in the Gazette or the
approval is granted, whichever is the later; or
(b) in respect of paragraph (1)(c), within one year after the
end of the year the payment is made.
(3) On receiving an application under subsection (1), the Director
General shall inquire into the matter and may give by way of
repayment of tax such relief as appears to the Director General to be
just and reasonable.
(4) An application under subsection (1) shall be as nearly as may be
in the same form as a notice of appeal under section 99.
(5) Where the applicant is aggrieved by the Director General’s
decision on the application under subsection (1), the following
provisions shall apply:
(a) the applicant may, within six months after being
informed of the decision, request in the prescribed form


for the Director General to forward the application to the
Special Commissioners;
(b) the Director General shall within three months after
receiving the request send the application forward as if he
were sending an appeal forward pursuant to section 102;
and
(c) the application shall thereupon be deemed to be an
appeal and shall be disposed of accordingly.
Double taxation arrangements
132. (1) If the Minister by statutory order declares that—
(a) arrangements specified in the order have been made by
the Government with the government of any territory
outside Malaysia with a view of affording relief from
double taxation in relation to tax under this Act or other
taxes of every kind under any written law and any
foreign tax of that territory; and
(b) it is expedient that those arrangements should have
effect,
then, so long as the order remains in force, those arrangements shall
have effect in relation to tax under this Act or other taxes of every kind
under any written law notwithstanding anything in any written law.
(1A) For the purposes of this section, arrangements made with a
view to affording relief from double taxation include any arrangements
which modify the effect of arrangements so made.
(2) Where any arrangements have effect by virtue of this section,
section 138 shall not prevent the disclosure to a duly authorized servant
or agent of the government with which the arrangements have been
made of such information as is required to be disclosed under the
arrangements.


Income Tax 377
(3) The appropriate provisions of Schedule 7 shall apply where,
under any arrangements having effect under this section in relation to
a territory outside Malaysia, foreign tax payable under the laws of that
territory is to be allowed as a credit against tax payable under this Act.
(4) Any arrangements to which effect is given under this section
may include—
(a) provision for relief from tax with respect to any person
of any particular class;
(b) provision as to income which is not itself subject to
double taxation;
(c) provision for exempting from tax any person or any
person of any particular class or for exempting from tax
(wholly or in part) the income of any person or any
person of any particular class; and
(d) in addition to provisions for relief from double taxation,
other provisions relating to tax under this Act or other
taxes of every kind under any written law or to foreign
tax of the territory to which the arrangements relate,
and any such arrangements containing any such provision may with
respect to that provision be made to have effect for periods before the
passing of this Act or before the making of the arrangements, and the
foregoing subsections shall be construed accordingly.
(5) Where—
(a) any bilateral relief (within the meaning of Schedule 7)
falls to be given to a person for a year of assessment in
consequence of an order made under this section; and
(b) that year terminated prior to the date of that order,
any unilateral relief (within the meaning of that Schedule) falling to be
given to that person for that year by virtue of section 133 shall not be


given after that date; and, if any such unilateral relief has been given
to him for that year, the amount of any such bilateral relief shall be
reduced by the amount of that unilateral relief which has been so given.
(6) Any order made under this section shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat.
Tax information exchange arrangements
132A. (1) If the Minister by statutory order declares that—
(a) arrangements specified in the order have been made by
the Government with the government of any territory
outside Malaysia with a view to the exchange of
information foreseeably relevant to the administration or
assessment or collection or enforcement of the taxes
under this Act or other taxes of every kind under any
written law and any foreign tax of that territory; and
(b) it is expedient that those arrangements should have
effect, then, so long as the order remains in force,
notwithstanding anything in any written law, those
arrangements shall have effect in relation to tax under
this Act or other taxes of every kind under any written
law.
(2) No arrangement under this section can be made if the order in
respect of an arrangement under section 132 is in force.
(3) Where any arrangements have effect by virtue of this section,
section 138 shall not prevent the disclosure to a duly authorized servant
or agent of the government with which the arrangements have been made
of such information as is required to be disclosed under the arrangements.
(4) Any order made under this section shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat.


Income Tax 379
Mutual administrative assistance arrangement
132B. (1) Notwithstanding section 132 or 132A, if the Minister by
statutory order declares that —
(a) arrangements specified in the order have been made by
the Government with the government of any territory
outside Malaysia with a view to the mutual
administrative assistance in tax matters which includes
simultaneous tax examinations, automatic exchange of
information or tax administrations abroad; and
(b) it is expedient that those arrangements should have
effect, then, so long as the order remains in force,
notwithstanding anything in any written law, those
arrangements shall have effect in relation to tax under
this Act or other taxes of every kind under written law.
(1A) Where any arrangements have effect by virtue of this section,
section 138 shall not prevent the disclosure to a duly authorized servant
or agent of the government with which the arrangements have been
made of such information as is required to be disclosed under the
arrangements.
(2) Any order made under this section shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat.
International obligations
132C. (1) Notwithstanding section 132, 132A or 132B, if the Minister
by statutory order declares that―
(a) arrangements specified in the order have been made by
the Government to give effect to Malaysia’s
international obligations in relation to tax under this Act
or other taxes of every kind under any written law; and


(b) it is expedient that those arrangements should have
effect,
then, so long as the order remains in force, notwithstanding anything
in any written law, those arrangements shall have effect in relation to
tax under this Act or other taxes of every kind under written law.
(2) Where any arrangements have effect by virtue of this section,
section 138 shall not prevent the disclosure to a duly authorized servant
or agent of the government with which the arrangements have been
made of such information as is required to be disclosed under the
arrangements.
(3) Any order made under this section shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat.
Unilateral relief from double taxation
133. Relief from double taxation in relation to tax under this Act and
any foreign tax of any territory shall, where there is no order under
section 132 in force in respect of that territory, be given in accordance
with the appropriate provisions of Schedule 7:
Provided that no relief shall be given under this section in relation to
tax payable under the laws of a province or other component part of
that territory or tax levied by or on behalf of a municipality or other
local body.
PART IXA
SPECIAL INCENTIVE RELIEF
Special incentive relief
133A. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, special
incentive relief shall be given in accordance with Schedule 7A and
Schedule 7B.


Income Tax 381
PART X
SUPPLEMENTAL
Chapter 1 - Administration
The Director General and his staff
134. (1) There shall be a Director General of Inland Revenue, who
shall have the care and management of the tax.
(1A) The chief executive officer of the Inland Revenue Board of
Malaysia appointed under subsection 6A(1) of the Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia Act 1995 shall be the Director General of Inland
Revenue.
(1B) The deputy chief executive officers of the Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia appointed under subsection 6A(1A) of the Inland
Revenue Board of Malaysia Act 1995 shall be the Deputy Directors
General of Inland Revenue.
(2) The Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia shall, after consulting
the Director General of Inland Revenue, appoint, by notification in the
Gazette —
(a) (Deleted by Act 742);
(b) State Directors, Directors, Deputy Directors, Principal
Assistant Directors and Assistant Directors of Inland
Revenue;
(c) Head of Revenue Solicitor, Deputy Revenue Solicitors,
Senior Revenue Counsels and Revenue Counsels; and
(d) such other officers as may be necessary and expedient
for the due administration of this Act,
from amongst the employees of the Inland Revenue Board of
Malaysia.


Power of Minister to give directions to Director General
135. The Minister may give to the Director General directions of a
general character (not inconsistent with this Act) as to the exercise of
the functions of the Director General under this Act; and the Director
General shall give effect to any directions so given.
Delegation of Director General’s functions
136. (1) Any function of the Director General under this Act (not
being a function exercisable by statutory order or a function
exercisable under section 152) may be exercised by a Deputy Director
General.
(2) Any officer appointed under paragraphs 134(2)(b) and (c), may
exercise any function of the Director General under this Act (not being
a function exercisable by statutory order or a function exercisable
under section 152) except his function under section 44,
subsection 137(1) and section 150.
(3) (Deleted by Act 644).
(4) (Deleted by Act 644).
(5) The Director General may by writing under his hand
authorize any public officer or any employee of the Inland
Revenue Board of Malaysia (subject to any exceptions or
limitations contained in the authorization) to exercise or assist in
exercising any function of the Director General under this Act
which is exercisable under subsection (2) by the appointed
officers.
(6) Where a public officer or any employee of the Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia exercises any of the Director General’s functions
by virtue of any provision of subsections (1) to (5), he shall do so
subject to the general supervision and control of the Director General.


Income Tax 383
(7) The delegation by or under any provision of subsections (1)
to (5) of the exercise of any function of the Director General shall not
prevent the exercise of that function by the Director General himself.
(8) References in this Act to the Director General shall be
construed, in relation to any case where a public officer or an employee
of the Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia is authorized by any
provision of subsections (1) to (5) to exercise the functions of the
Director General, as including references to that officer or employee.
Identification of officials
137. (1) Any person exercising the right of access or the right to take
possession conferred by section 80 shall carry a warrant in the
prescribed form issued by the Director General (or, in the case of a
warrant issued to the Director General, by a Deputy Director General)
which shall identify the holder and his office and shall be produced by
the holder on demand to any person having reasonable grounds to
make the demand.
(2) Where a person purporting to be a public officer or an employee
of the Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia exercising functions under
this Act produces a warrant in the form prescribed under
subsection (1) or any written identification or authority, then, until the
contrary is proved, the warrant, identification or authority shall be
presumed to be genuine and he shall be presumed to be the person
referred to therein.
Certain material to be treated as confidential
138. (1) Subject to this section, every classified person shall regard
and deal with classified material as confidential; and, if he is an
official, he shall make and subscribe before the prescribed authority a
declaration in the prescribed form that he will do so.
(2) No classified material shall be produced or used in court or
otherwise except—


(a) for the purposes of this Act or another tax law;
(b) in order to institute or assist in the course of a
prosecution for any offence committed in relation to tax
or in relation to any tax or duty imposed by another tax
law; or
(c) with the written authority of the Minister or of the person
or partnership to whose affairs it relates.
(3) No official shall be required by any court—
(a) to produce or disclose classified material which has been
supplied to him or another official otherwise than by or
on behalf of the person or partnership to whose affairs it
relates; or
(b) to identify the person who supplied that material.
(4) Nothing in this section shall prevent—
(a) the production or disclosure of classified material to the
Auditor-General (or to public officers under his direction
and control) or the use of classified material by the
Auditor-General, to such an extent as is necessary or
expedient for the proper exercise of the functions of his
office;
(b) the Director General from publicizing, from time to time
in any manner as he may deem fit, the following
particulars in respect of a person who has been found
guilty or convicted of any offence under this Act or dealt
with under subsection 113(2) or section 124—
(i) the name, address and occupation or other
description of the person;
(ii) such particulars of the offence or evasion as the
Director General may think fit;


Income Tax 385
(iii) the year or years of assessment to which the
offence or evasion relates;
(iv) the amount of the income not disclosed;
(v) the aggregate of the amount of the tax evaded and
penalty (if any) charged or imposed;
(vi) the sentence imposed or other order made:
Provided that the Director General may refrain from publicizing any
particulars of any person to whom this paragraph applies if the Director
General is satisfied that, before any investigation or inquiry has been
commenced in respect of any offence or evasion falling under
section 113 or 114, that person has voluntarily disclosed to the Director
General or to any authorized officer complete information and full
particulars relating to such offence or evasion.
(5) In this section—
“another tax law” means any Ordinance wholly repealed by this Act,
any written law relating to estate duty, film hire duty, payroll tax or
turnover tax and any other written law declared by the Minister by
statutory order to be another tax law for the purposes of this section;
“classified material” means any return or other document made for
the purposes of this Act and relating to the income of any person or
partnership and any information or other matter or thing which comes
to the notice of a classified person in his capacity as such;
“classified person” means—
(a) an official;
(b) the Auditor-General and public officers under his
direction and control;
(c) any person advising or acting for a person who is or may
be chargeable to tax, and any employee of a person so


acting or advising if he is an employee who in his
capacity as such has access to classified material; or
(d) any employee of the Inland Revenue Board of
Malaysia;
“official” means a person having an official duty under or employed
in carrying out the provisions of this Act.
Chapter 1A – Ruling
Public ruling
138A. (1) The Director General may at any time make a public ruling
on the application of any provision of this Act in relation to any person
or class of persons, or any type of arrangement.
(2) The Director General may withdraw, either wholly or partly,
any public ruling made under this section.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, where a public
ruling in subsection (1) applies to any person in relation to an
arrangement and the person applies the provision in the manner stated
in the ruling, the Director General shall apply the provision in relation
to the person and the arrangement in accordance with the ruling.
Advance ruling
138B. (1) Subject to this section or any rules prescribed under this Act,
on the application made by any person, the Director General shall make
an advance ruling on the application of any provision of this Act to the
person and to the arrangement for which the ruling is sought.
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall be made in the
prescribed form and shall contain particulars as may be required by the
Director General.


Income Tax 387
(3) The Director General may at any time withdraw any advance
ruling made under subsection (1) by giving a notice in writing of such
withdrawal to the person to whom the ruling applies.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, where an
advance ruling applies to any person in relation to an arrangement and
the person applies the provision in the manner stated in the ruling, the
Director General shall apply the provision in relation to the person and
that arrangement in accordance with the ruling.
(5) An advance ruling on any of the provision of this Act shall apply
to a person in relation to an arrangement if the provision is expressly
referred to in the ruling and for the basis period for year of the
assessment for which the ruling applies.
(6) A ruling made under subsection (1) does not apply to a person
in relation to an arrangement if—
(a) the arrangement is materially different from the
arrangement stated in the ruling;
(b) there was a material omission or misrepresentation in, or
in connection with the application of the ruling;
(c) the Director General makes an assumption about a future
event or another matter that is material to the ruling, and
that assumption subsequently proves to be incorrect; or
(d) the person fails to satisfy any of the conditions stipulated
by the Director General.
Advance Pricing Arrangement
138C. (1) Subject to this section and any rules prescribed under this
Act, on the application made to the Director General by any person
who carries out a cross border transaction with an associated person—


(a) the Director General may enter into an advance pricing
arrangement with that person; or
(b) in the case where section 132 applies, the competent
authorities may enter into an advance pricing
arrangement,
in order to determine the transfer pricing methodology to be used in
any future apportionment or allocation of income or deduction to
ensure the arm’s length transfer prices in relation to that transaction.
(2) An application under subsection (1) shall be made in the
prescribed form and shall contain particulars as may be required by the
Director General.
(3) The transactions referred to in subsection (1) shall be construed
as a transaction between—
(a) persons one of whom has control over the other;
(b) individuals who are relatives of each other; or
(c) persons both of whom are controlled by some other
person.
(4) In this section, “relative” and “transaction” have the same
meanings assigned to them under subsection 140(8).
Chapter 2 – Controlled companies and powers to protect
the revenue in case of certain transactions
Controlled companies
139. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person shall be taken to have
control of a company—
(a) if he exercises or is able to exercise or is entitled to
acquire control (whether direct or indirect) over the


Income Tax 389
company’s affairs and in particular, without prejudice to
the generality of the preceding words, if he possesses or
is entitled to acquire the greater part of the share capital
or voting power in the company;
(b) if he possesses or is entitled to acquire either—
(i) the greater part of the issued share capital of the
company;
(ii) such part of that capital as would, if the whole of
the income of the company were in fact distributed
to the members, entitle him to receive the greater
part of the amount so distributed; or
(iii) such redeemable share capital as would entitle him
to receive on its redemption the greater part of the
assets which, in the event of a winding up, would
be available for distribution among members; or
(c) if in the event of a winding up he would be entitled to
the greater part of the assets available for distribution
among members.
(2) Where two or more persons together satisfy in respect of a
company any of the conditions in subsection (l), they shall be taken to
have control of the company.
(3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) there shall be
attributed to any person any rights or powers of a nominee for him, that
is to say, any rights or powers which another person possesses on his
behalf or may be required to exercise on his direction or behalf.
(4) Where the trustees of a trust are members of a controlled
company, only one of those trustees shall be deemed to be a member
thereof; and, where each of those trustees as such is a person of the
kind mentioned in subsection (1) or (2), only one of those trustees shall
be taken to be a person of that kind.


(5) For the purposes of subparagraph (1)(b)(iii) and paragraph (c),
any person who is a loan creditor of a company (otherwise than in
respect of any loan capital or debt issued or incurred by the company
for money lent by him to the company in the ordinary course of a
business of banking carried on by him) may be treated as a member,
and the references to share capital may be treated as including loan
capital.
(6) For the purposes of subsection (l) there may be attributed to any
person all the rights and powers of any company of which he has, or
he and associates of his have, control or any two or more such
companies, or of any associate of his or any two or more associates of
his, including those attributed to a company or associate under
subsection (3) but not those attributed to an associate under this
subsection; and such attributions shall be made under this subsection
as will result in the company being treated as under the control of five
or fewer persons, if it can be so treated.
(7) In this section—
“associate” means, in relation to a person—
(a) a person in any of the following relationships to that
person, that is to say, husband or wife, parent or remoter
forebear, child or remoter issue, brother, sister and
partner;
(b) the trustee or trustees of a settlement in relation to which
that person is, or any such relative of his (living or dead)
as is mentioned in paragraph (a) of this definition is or
was, a settlor (“settlement” and “settler” here having the
same meaning as in section 65);
(c) where that person is interested in any shares or
obligations of a company which are subject to any trust
or are part of the estate of a deceased person, any other
person interested therein;


Income Tax 391
“member” includes, in relation to a company, any person having a
share or interest in the capital or income of the company, and for the
purposes of subsection (1) a person shall be treated as entitled to
acquire anything which he is entitled to acquire at a future date or will
at a future date be entitled to acquire.
Power to disregard certain transactions
140. (1) The Director General, where he has reason to believe that
any transaction has the direct or indirect effect of—
(a) altering the incidence of tax which is payable or suffered
by or which would otherwise have been payable or
suffered by any person;
(b) relieving any person from any liability which has arisen
or which would otherwise have arisen to pay tax or to
make a return;
(c) evading or avoiding any duty or liability which is
imposed or would otherwise have been imposed on any
person by this Act; or
(d) hindering or preventing the operation of this Act in any
respect,
may, without prejudice to such validity as it may have in any other
respect or for any other purpose, disregard or vary the transaction and
make such adjustments as he thinks fit with a view to counteracting the
whole or any part of any such direct or indirect effect of the transaction.
(2) In exercising his powers under this section, the Director General
may—
(a) treat any gross income from any source of any person
either as the gross income and source of any other person
or, where the gross income is that of a controlled
company, as having been distributed to any member


(within the meaning of subsection 139(7)) of that
company;
(b) make such computation or recomputation of any gross
income, adjusted income or adjusted loss, statutory
income, aggregate income, total income or chargeable
income of any person or persons as may be necessary to
revise any person’s liability to tax or impose any liability
to tax on any person in accordance with his exercise of
those powers; and
(c) make such assessment or additional assessment in
respect of any person as may be necessary in
consequence of his exercise of those powers, nullify a
right to repayment of tax or require the return of a
repayment of tax already made.
(2A) In exercising his powers under this section, the Director
General may require by notice any person to pay to him within the time
specified in the notice the amount of tax that would be deducted by
that person under this Act in consequence of his exercise of those
powers.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing subsections,
the powers of the Director General conferred by this section shall
extend—
(a) to the charging with tax of any person or persons who
but for any adjustment made by virtue of this section
would not be chargeable with tax or would not be
chargeable with tax to the same extent; and
(b) to the charging of a greater amount of tax than would be
chargeable but for any such adjustment.
(4) Where in accordance with this section the Director General
requires from a person the return of the amount of a repayment of tax
already made—


Income Tax 393
(a) the Director General shall give to that person a notice of
that requirement and the notice shall be treated as a
notice of assessment for the purposes of any appeal
therefrom, Chapter 2 of Part VI applying with any
necessary modifications; and
(b) that amount shall be deemed to be tax payable under an
assessment and section 103 and the other provisions of
Part VII shall apply accordingly.
(5) Where in consequence of any adjustment made under this
section an assessment is made, a right to repayment is refused or a
return of a repayment of tax is required, particulars of the adjustment
shall be given with the notice of assessment, with the notice refusing
the repayment or with the notice requiring the return of a repayment,
as the case may be.
(6) Transactions—
(a) between persons one of whom has control over the other;
(b) between individuals who are relatives of each other; or
(c) between persons both of whom are controlled by some
other person,
shall be deemed to be transactions of the kind to which subsection (1)
applies if in the opinion of the Director General those transactions have
not been made on terms which might fairly be expected to have been
made by independent persons engaged in the same or similar activities
dealing with one another at arm’s length.
(7) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, where a
transaction to which this section relates consists of a settlement on a
relative or on a relative and other persons, nothing in this section and
no powers exercised thereunder shall affect the interests of the relative
under the settlement.
(8) In this section—


“relative” means a parent, a child (including a stepchild and a child
adopted in accordance with any law), a brother, a sister, an uncle, an
aunt, a nephew, a niece, a cousin, an ancestor or a lineal descendant;
“transaction” means any trust, grant, covenant, agreement,
arrangement or other disposition or transaction made or entered into
orally or in writing (whether before or after the commencement of this
Act), and includes a transaction entered into by two or more persons
with another person or persons.
Power to substitute price, disregard structure and impose
surcharge
140A. (1) This section shall apply notwithstanding section 140 and
subject to any rules prescribed under this Act.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), where a person in the basis period for
a year of assessment enters into a transaction with an associated person
for that year for the acquisition or supply of property or services, then,
for all purposes of this Act, that person shall determine and apply the
arm’s length price for such acquisition or supply.
(3) Where the Director General has reason to believe that any
property or services referred to in subsection (2) is acquired or supplied
at a price which is either less than or greater than the price which it
might have been expected to fetch if the parties to the transaction had
been independent persons dealing at arm’s length, he may in
determination of the gross income, adjusted income or adjusted loss,
statutory income, total income or chargeable income of the person,
substitute the price in respect of the transaction to reflect an arm’s
length price for the transaction.
(3A) The Director General may disregard any structure adopted by
a person in entering into a transaction if—
(a) the economic substance of that transaction differs from
its form; or


Income Tax 395
(b) the form and substance of that transaction are the same
but the arrangement made in relation to the transaction,
viewed in totality, differs from those which would have
been adopted by independent persons behaving in a
commercially rational manner and the actual structure
impedes the Director General from determining an
appropriate transfer price.
(3B) Where the Director General disregards any structure adopted
by a person entering into a transaction under subsection (3A), the
Director General shall make adjustments to the structure of that
transaction as he thinks fit to reflect the structure that would have been
adopted by an independent person dealing at arm’s length having
regard to the economic and commercial reality.
(3C) Where this section and any rules made under
paragraph 154(1)(ed) apply, the Director General may by notice in
writing require that person to pay a surcharge of not more than five per
cent of the amount of increase of any income generally, or reduction
of any deduction or loss, as the case may be, as a consequence of
exercising his powers to substitute the price in respect of a transaction
entered into by a person to reflect an arm’s length price for that
transaction or to disregard any structure adopted by a person in
entering into a transaction.
(3D) Any surcharge required to be paid by a person under
subsection (3C) shall be collected by the Director General as if it were
tax payable by that person, but shall not be treated as tax so payable
for the purposes of any provision of this Act other than sections 103
to 106.
(4) (Deleted by Act 801).
(5) The transactions referred to in subsections (2) and (3A) shall be
construed as a transaction between—
(a) persons one of whom has control over the other;
(b) individuals who are relatives of each other; or


(c) persons both of whom are controlled by some other
person (in this section referred to as “third person”).
(5A) Without prejudice to the generality of section 139, for the
purpose of subsection (5), “control” refers to persons one of whom
owns shares of the other person, or a third person who owns shares of
both persons, where the percentage of the share capital held in either
situation is twenty per cent or more and―
(a) the business operations of that person depends on the
proprietary rights, such as patents, non-patented
technological know-how, trademarks, or copyrights,
provided by the other person or a third person;
(b) the business activities, such as purchases, sales, receipt
of services, provision of services, of that person are
specified by the other person, and the prices and other
conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such
other person or a third person; or
(c) where one or more of the directors or members of the
board of directors of a person are appointed by the other
person or a third person.
(6) In this section, “relative” and “transaction” have the same
meanings assigned to them under subsection 140(8).
Special provision applicable to loan or advances to director
140B. (1) Without prejudice to the generality of section 140A and
subject to this section, where in a basis period for a year of assessment,
a company makes any loan or advances of any money from the internal
funds of the company to a person who is a director of that company,
the company shall be deemed to have a gross income consisting of
interest from such loan or advances for that basis period.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the interest for the basis
period for that year of assessment shall be the aggregate sum of interest


Income Tax 397
for all calendar months in the basis period and the sum of interest for
each calendar month shall be determined in accordance with the
following formula:
1 x A x B
where A is the total amount of loan or advances outstanding at the
end of the calendar month; and
B is the average lending rate of commercial banks
published by the Central Bank at the end of the calendar
month or where there is no such average lending rate,
such other reference lending rate as may be prescribed
by the Director General.
(3) Where in respect of a loan or advances referred to under
subsection (1), interest is charged by the company and the total amount
of interest charged and payable by the director to that company for the
basis period for a year of assessment—
(a) is more than the aggregate sum of interest under
subsection (2) for that basis period, this section shall
cease to apply; or
(b) is less than the aggregate sum of interest under
subsection (2) for that basis period, this section shall
apply and the total amount of interest which is charged
and payable to the company for that basis period shall
be disregarded.
(4) For the purposes of this Act, “director” has the same meaning
assigned to it under subsection 75A(2).
Restriction on deductibility of interest
140C. (1) This section shall apply without prejudice to section 140
or 140A and subject to any rules made under this Act.


(2) In ascertaining the adjusted income of a person from each of his
sources consisting of a business for the basis period for a year of
assessment, no deduction from the gross income from that source for
that period shall be allowed in respect of any interest expense in
connection with or on any financial assistance in a controlled
transaction granted directly or indirectly to that person which is in
excess of the maximum amount of interest as determined under any
rules made under this Act.
(3) In this section―
“control” has the meaning assigned to it in subsection 140A(5A);
“controlled transaction” shall be construed as a financial
assistance―
(a) between persons one of whom has control over the other;
or
(b) between persons both of whom are controlled by some
other person (in this section referred to as “third
person”);
“financial assistance” includes loan, interest bearing trade credit,
advances, debt or the provision of any security or guarantee;
“interest expense” means―
(a) interest on all forms of debt; or
(b) payments economically equivalent to interest (excluding
expenses incurred in connection with the raising of
finance).
Powers regarding certain transactions by non-residents
141. (1) Where—


Income Tax 399
(a) a person who is not resident for the basis year for a year
of assessment carries on a business with another person
who is resident for that basis year (that person, that other
person and that year of assessment being in this section
referred to as the non-resident, the resident and the
relevant year respectively); and
(b) it appears to the Director General that, owing to the close
connection between the resident and the non-resident
and to the substantial control exercised by the non-
resident over the resident, the course of business
between them can be and is so arranged that the business
done by the resident in pursuance of his connection with
the non-resident produces to the resident in relation to
the basis period for the relevant year either no income or
a smaller income than that which might be expected to
arise from that business,
the non-resident shall as regards the relevant year be taken to have a
chargeable income and to be assessable and chargeable to tax thereon
in the name of the resident by reference to the income which might be
expected to arise from the business of the resident as if the resident
were an agent of the non-resident.
(2) Where the true amount of the income from a business of the non-
resident cannot be readily ascertained for the purposes of subsection (1)—
(a) the Director General may, if he thinks fit, assess and
charge the non-resident for the relevant year on a fair and
reasonable percentage of the turnover of the business
done by the non-resident through or with the resident
(the percentage being determined in each case with
regard to the nature of the business); and
(b) the provisions of this Act relating to the delivery of
returns or particulars by persons acting on behalf of
others shall extend so as to require returns or particulars
of the business done by the non-resident through or with
the resident to be furnished by the resident in the same


manner as returns or particulars of income are to be
delivered by persons acting for persons who are not
resident.
Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous
Evidential provisions
142. (1) In a suit under section 106 the production of a certificate
signed by the Director General giving the name and address of the
defendant and the amount of tax due from him shall be sufficient
evidence of the amount so due and sufficient authority for the court to
give judgment for that amount.
(2) In criminal or civil proceedings under this Act any statement
purporting to be signed by the Director General or an authorized
officer which forms part of or is annexed to the information, complaint
or statement of claim, shall, until the contrary is proved, be evidence
of any fact stated therein:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply to—
(a) a statement of the intent of the accused person or other
defendant; or
(b) proceedings for an offence punishable by imprisonment.
(3) A transcript of any particulars contained in a return or other
document relating to tax, if it is certified under the hand of the Director
General or an authorized officer to be a true copy of the particulars,
shall be admissible in evidence as proof of those particulars.
(4) No statement made or document produced by or on behalf of any
person shall be inadmissible in evidence against that person in any
proceedings against him for an offence under section 112, 113
or 114, or for the recovery of any sum due by way of tax or penalty, by
reason only of the fact that he was or may have been induced to make


Income Tax 401
the statement or produce the document by any lawful inducement or
promise proceeding from the Director General or an authorized officer.
(5) (a) Save as provided in paragraph (b) nothing in this Act
shall—
(i) affect the operation of Chapter IX of Part III of the
Evidence Act 1950 [Act 56]; or
(ii) be construed as requiring or permitting any person
to produce or give to a court, the Special
Commissioners, the Director General or any other
person any document, thing or information on
which by that Chapter or those provisions he would
not be required or permitted to produce or give to a
court.
(b) Notwithstanding any other written law, where any
document, thing, matter, information, communication or
advice consists wholly or partly of, or relates wholly or
partly to, the receipts, payments, income, expenditure, or
financial transactions or dealings of any person (whether
an advocate and solicitor, his client, or any other person),
it shall not be privileged from disclosure to a court, the
Special Commissioners, the Director General or any
authorized officer if it is contained in, or comprises the
whole or part of, any book, account, statement, or other
record prepared or kept by any practitioner or firm of
practitioners in connection with any client or clients of
the practitioner or firm of practitioners or any other
person.
(c) Paragraph (b) shall also apply with respect to any
document, thing, matter, information, communication or
advice made or brought into existence before the
commencement of that paragraph.


Admissibility of electronic record
142A. (1) Notwithstanding any other written law, where in any
proceedings under this Act an electronic record of—
(a) any prescribed form is furnished by way of electronic
transmission under section 152A; or
(b) any other document is stored or received by or
communicated to the Director General on an electronic
medium or by way of electronic transmission,
the electronic record or the copy or print-out of that electronic record
shall be admissible as evidence of the facts stated or contained therein:
Provided that the record or the copy or print-out is—
(i) certified by the Director General to contain all or
any information furnished, stored, communicated
or received on an electronic medium or by way of
electronic transmission under this section; or
(ii) otherwise authenticated in the manner provided in
the Evidence Act 1950 for authentication of
documents produced by computer.
(2) Where the electronic record of any form prescribed under this
Act or any other document, or a copy or print-out of that record is
admissible under subsection (1), it shall be presumed, until the contrary
is proved, that the record or the copy or print-out accurately reproduces
the content of that form or document.
(3) For the purposes of this Act, “electronic medium” includes a
data, text, image or any other information stored, received or
communicated by means of electronic, magnetic, optical, imaging or
any other data processing device.


Income Tax 403
Errors and defects in assessments, notices and other documents
143. (1) No assessment, notice or other document purporting to be
made or issued for the purposes of this Act shall be quashed or deemed to
be void or voidable for want of form, or be affected by any mistake, defect
or omission therein, if it is in substance and effect in conformity with this
Act or in accordance with the intent and meaning of this Act and—
(a) in the case of an assessment, the person assessed or
intended to be assessed or affected thereby is designated
according to common intent and understanding; and
(b) in any other case, the person to whom it is addressed and
any other person referred to therein are so designated.
(2) An assessment purporting to be made or issued for the purposes
of this Act shall not be impeached or affected by reason of a mistake
therein as to—
(a) the name of a person charged to tax;
(b) the description of any income; or
(c) the amount of chargeable income assessed or tax
charged,
and a notice of assessment purporting to be so made or issued shall not
be impeached or affected by any such mistake if it is served on the
person in respect of whom the assessment was made or intended to be
made (or served in accordance with subsection 67(5)) and contains in
substance and effect the particulars contained in the assessment.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), if the amount of tax charged by
an assessment has been incorrectly calculated by reference to the
amount of the chargeable income and the appropriate rate of tax
applicable thereto, the amount of tax charged as shown in the
assessment and the notice of assessment may, if the Director General
so directs, be taken to be the amount of tax which ought to have been
charged if it had been correctly calculated.


(4) A notice of tax payable purporting to be issued for the purposes
of this Act shall not be impeached by reason of a mistake therein as to
the name of the person liable to pay the tax if the notice is served on
that person.
Power to direct where returns, etc., are to be sent
144. The Director General may by statutory order direct that any
information, return or document required to be supplied, sent or
delivered to the Director General for the purposes of this Act shall,
subject to any conditions contained in the order, be supplied, sent or
delivered to such public officer or employee of the Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia or to such address as may be specified in the order.
Service of notices
145. (1) Subject to any express provision of this Act, for the purposes
of this Act notices may be served personally or by ordinary or
registered post.
(2) A notice relating to tax which is sent by ordinary or registered
post shall be deemed to have been served on the person (including a
partnership) to whom it is addressed on the day succeeding the day on
which the notice would have been received in the ordinary course of
post if it is addressed—
(a) in the case of a company, partnership or body of persons
having a registered office in Malaysia—
(i) to that registered office;
(ii) to its last known address; or
(iii) to any person authorized by it to accept service of
process;


Income Tax 405
(b) in the case of a company, partnership or body of persons
not having a registered office in Malaysia—
(i) to any registered office of the company, partnership
or body (wherever that office may be situated);
(ii) to the principal place of business or other activity of
the company, partnership or body (wherever that
place may be situated); or
(iii) to any individual authorized (by or under the law
of any place where the company, partnership or
body is incorporated, registered or established) to
accept service of process; and
(c) in the case of an individual, to his last known address.
(3) Where a person to whom there has been addressed a registered
letter containing a notice under this Act—
(a) is informed that there is a registered letter awaiting him
at a post office but refuses or neglects to take delivery of
the letter; or
(b) refuses to accept delivery of that registered letter when
tendered,
the notice shall be deemed to have been served upon him on the date
on which he was informed that the letter was awaiting him or on which
the letter was tendered to him, as the case may be.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3) an affidavit by the officer in
charge of a post office stating that to the best of his knowledge and belief—
(a) there has been delivered to the address appearing on a
registered letter a post office notification informing the
addressee that there is a registered letter awaiting him;
or


(b) there has been tendered for delivery to the addressee a
registered letter,
shall, until the contrary is proved, be evidence that the addressee has
been so informed or that that registered letter has been tendered to him,
as the case may be.
Authentication of notices and other documents
146. (1) Subject to subsection (2), every notice or other document
issued, served or given for the purposes of this Act by the Director
General or an authorized officer shall be sufficiently authenticated if
the name and office of the Director General is printed, stamped or
otherwise written thereon.
(2) Where this Act provides for a notice, certificate or other
document to be under the hand of any officer, the notice, certificate or
document shall be signed in manuscript by that officer.
(3) A notice, certificate or other document issued, made, served or
given for the purposes of this Act and purporting to be signed in
manuscript by the Director General or an authorized officer shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have been so signed.
Free postage
147. All returns made under this Act and all remittances of tax
(and any correspondence resulting from or connected with any
such return or remittance) may, if posted in Malaysia in envelopes
marked “Income Tax”, be sent free of postage to the Director
General or to an officer or address specified in an order made under
section 144:
Provided that the Director General may in certain cases by notice in
writing require any person to send any return, document or
correspondence by registered post.


Income Tax 407
Provisions as to approvals and directions given by Minister or
Director General
148. Where by or under this Act there is conferred on the Minister or
the Director General power to give an approval or direction of any kind
(not being a power exercisable by statutory order)—
(a) an approval or direction given in the exercise of that
power shall not be regarded as subsidiary legislation;
(b) that power shall be deemed to include—
(i) power to give any such approval or direction with
retrospective effect;
(ii) power to vary or revoke any such approval or
direction retrospectively or otherwise; and
(iii) power to give any such approval or direction
subject to such conditions as the Minister or the
Director General, as the case may be, may think fit
to impose; and
(c) any such approval or direction shall take effect when it
is given or, where the Minister or Director General, as
the case may be, specifies a date on which it is to take
effect, on that date.
Annulment of rules and orders laid before the Dewan Rakyat
149. Where this Act provides for any rule or order to be laid before
the Dewan Rakyat, the rule or order shall be laid before the Dewan as
soon as may be after it has been made and, if the Dewan at or before
the second meeting begun after the rule or order is laid before it
resolves that the rule or order or any provision of it be annulled, the
rule or order or that provision of it shall cease to have effect, without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder or the making of a
new rule or order:


Provided that this section shall not apply to an order made under
subsection 6(2).
Power to approve pension or provident fund, scheme or society
150. The Director General may, subject to such conditions as he may
think fit to impose, approve any pension or provident fund, scheme or
society for the purposes of this Act.
Procedure for making refunds and repayments
151. Where the Director General is authorized or required by this Act
to make any refund or repayment, he shall certify the amount of the
sum to be refunded or repaid and cause the refund or repayment to be
made forthwith.
Forms
152. (1) The Director General may, either by statutory order or in
such other way as seems to him to be appropriate, prescribe such forms
as are required by this Act to be prescribed and such other forms as he
considers ought to be prescribed in connection with the operation of
this Act, and may authorize the use of a suitable substitute for any form
so prescribed:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply to the form of
declaration to be prescribed for the purposes of subsection 138(1).
(2) Where in order to comply with any provision of this Act a
person is required to use a prescribed form, he shall not be regarded as
complying with that provision unless he uses all reasonable diligence
to procure and use—
(a) a printed copy of the form as prescribed under
subsection (1); or


Income Tax 409
(b) a copy of any substitute for the form authorized under
subsection (1), being a printed copy unless the
authorization provides otherwise.
Electronic medium
152A. (1) Any person or class of persons—
(a) shall, if so required under this Act; or
(b) may, if so allowed by the Director General,
furnish any form prescribed under this Act on an electronic medium or
by way of an electronic transmission.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the conditions and
specifications under which any prescribed form is to be furnished shall
be as determined by the Director General.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person may authorize in
writing a tax agent to furnish on his behalf any form prescribed under
this Act in the manner provided for in subsection (1).
(4) A form prescribed under this Act furnished in accordance with
subsection (3) on behalf of any person shall be presumed to have been
furnished on that person’s authority, until the contrary is proved, and
the person shall be deemed to be cognizant of its contents.
(5) Where subsection (3) applies—
(a) the person who authorizes the tax agent shall make a
declaration in the form prescribed under this Act stating
that—
(i) the tax agent is authorized to furnish the form to
the Director General on his behalf; and


(ii) the information provided by him to the tax agent
for the preparation of the form is true and correct;
(b) the tax agent shall make a declaration in the form
furnished in accordance with subsection (1) stating
that—
(i) the form is prepared in accordance with the
information given by the person; and
(ii) he has received a declaration made by the person
under paragraph (a);
(c) the person shall keep and retain in safe custody the form
being the hard copy of the form so furnished and that
copy shall be made under processes and procedures
which are designed to ensure that the information
contained in the form shall be the only information
furnished in accordance with this section;
(d) the hard copy shall be signed by the person; and
(e) the hard copy in paragraph (c) and the declaration made
under paragraph (a) shall be kept and retained for a
period of seven years from the end of the year of
assessment in which the form is furnished.
(6) Any form referred to in subsection (1) is deemed to have been
furnished by a person to the Director General on the date on which
acknowledgement of receipt of the form is transmitted electronically
by the Director General to the person.


Income Tax 411
Restriction on persons holding themselves out as tax agents, tax
consultants, etc.
153. (1) No person holding himself out as a tax agent, a tax
consultant or a tax adviser (or under any other like description) shall
be permitted to act in Malaysia on behalf of any person for any of the
purposes of this Act unless he is a tax agent as defined in this section:
Provided that—
(a) where a company, body of persons or partnership so
holds itself out in any calendar year, then, if at the time
of the holding out any employee of the company,
member of the body or partner in the partnership
(whether or not that employee, member or partner is in
Malaysia) is a tax agent as so defined—
(i) it shall be sufficient for the purposes of this
subsection if there is present in Malaysia for a
period or periods in that year amounting in all to
more than one hundred and eighty two days an
employee, member or partner, as the case may be
(not being necessarily the same employee,
member or partner throughout that period or those
periods) who is such a tax agent; and
(ii) the company, body or partnership in question shall
not be guilty of a contravention of this section
unless after the end of that year it is shown to have
failed to comply with subparagraph (i);
(b) nothing in this subsection shall be construed as
restricting an advocate in the lawful practice of his
profession.
(2) In this section (and in section 120 in so far as it relates to this
section) “person” includes partnership.
NOTE—See section 31 of Act 644 for explanation.


(3) For the purposes of this Act, “tax agent” means any professional
accountant or person, approved by the Minister.
(4) An application for an approval under subsection (3) or for a
renewal of such approval shall be made to the Minister.
(5) A fee as may be prescribed by the Minister by an order
published in the Gazette shall be paid on the application for an
approval or renewal of an approval under subsection (4).
(6) An approval or renewal of an approval under this section shall
be valid for—
(a) a minimum period of twenty-four months beginning
from the date of such approval or renewal; or
(b) any other period as approved by the Minister which shall
not be less than twenty-four months beginning from the
date of such approval or renewal.
(7) An approval granted by the Minister before 24 October 1986
shall lapse on 31 December 1987 unless a renewal of such approval is
obtained under this section by that date.
Power to make rules
154. (1) The Minister may make rules—
(a) providing for the deduction and payment of tax at the
source in respect of income from any employment and
income of the kind mentioned in paragraph 4(e) and for
the recovery of tax which has or should have been so
deducted;
(b) prescribing, except where subsection 152(1) applies,
anything required by this Act to be prescribed;


Income Tax 413
(c) implementing or facilitating the operation of an
arrangement having effect under section 132, 132A,
132B or 132C;
(d) regulating the practice and procedure in appeals to the
Special Commissioners and the Special Commissioners’
own procedure;
(e) requiring any person chargeable to tax who intends to
leave Malaysia to produce a certificate that he has paid
all tax and other sums due from him under this Act or
that the Director General does not object to his
departure, and preventing any such person from leaving
Malaysia if he fails to produce such a certificate;
(ea) prescribing penalties for any contravention or failure to
comply with any of the provisions of any rules made
under this section:
Provided that no such penalty shall exceed the penalty
prescribed under section 120;
(eb) providing for the scope and procedure applied in relation
to any ruling made under section 138A or 138B, or to any
arrangement under section 138C;
(ec) prescribing fees charged in relation to any ruling made
under section 138B or to any arrangement made under
section 138C;
(ed) implementing and facilitating the operation of
sections 140A and 140C;
(f) for facilitating generally the operation of this Act.
(2) Any rules made under subsection (1) shall be laid before the
Dewan Rakyat.


Power to enter into an agreement with regard to tax liability
154A. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, the
Government may enter into an agreement with any person with regard
to ascertainment of his adjusted income or adjusted loss or tax
chargeable on him where such agreement is, in the opinion of the
Minister, just and equitable or in the interest of the Government or any
State Government.
(2) Any such agreement may include—
(a) provision for disallowing (wholly or in part) outgoings
or expenses which but for the agreement would have
been allowed as a deduction; or
(b) provision for forgoing (wholly or in part) by any person of
his entitlement to any relief or credit due to him under the
Act.
Repeals
155. (1) The Acts and Ordinances specified in Schedule 8 are hereby
repealed, to the extent therein specified, with effect from 1 January 1968.
(2) All subsidiary legislation made under any Ordinance
wholly repealed by subsection (1) is hereby revoked with effect
from 1 January 1968.
Transitional and saving provisions
156. Subject to section 127A, the transitional and saving provisions
in Schedule 9 shall have effect notwithstanding section 155 or any
other provision of this Act.


Income Tax 415
SCHEDULE 1
[Section 6]
Rates of Tax
PART I
1. Except where paragraphs 1A, 2, 2A, 2D, 3 and 4 provide otherwise, income tax
shall be charged for a year of assessment upon the chargeable income of every person
at the following rates:
Chargeable income RM Rate of
income tax
For every ringgit of the first 5,000 0 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 15,000 1 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 15,000 3 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 15,000 6 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 20,000 11 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 30,000 19 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 300,000 25 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 200,000 26 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 1,400,000 28 per cent
For every ringgit exceeding 2,000,000 30 per cent
1A. Except where paragraph 2 provides otherwise, income tax shall be charged for
a year of assessment on the chargeable income of a person (other than a company)
not resident for the basis year for that year of assessment at the rate of 30 per cent on
every ringgit of the chargeable income.
2. (1) Subject to paragraph 3, income tax shall be charged for a year of
assessment on the chargeable income of—
(a) a company other than a company to which paragraph 2A applies;
(b) (Deleted by Act 578).


(c) a trust body;
(d) an executor of an estate of a deceased individual who was domiciled
outside Malaysia at the time of his death;
(e) a receiver with respect to whom section 68(4) applies;
(f) a limited liability partnership other than a limited liability
partnership to which paragraph 2D applies,
at the rate of 25 per cent for the year of assessment 2015 and 24 per cent for the
subsequent years of assessment on every ringgit of the chargeable income.
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), income tax shall be charged for a year of
assessment on the chargeable income of a company other than a company to which
paragraph 2A applies which has chargeable income exceeding one hundred million
ringgit in the basis period for the year of assessment 2022 at the following rates:
Chargeable income RM Rate of
income tax
For every ringgit of the first 100,000,000 24 per cent
For every ringgit exceeding 100,000,000 33 per cent
2A. Subject to paragraphs 2B, 2C and 3, income tax shall be charged for a year of
assessment on the chargeable income of a company resident and incorporated in
Malaysia which has a paid-up capital in respect of ordinary shares of two million five
hundred thousand ringgit and less at the beginning of the basis period for a year of
assessment and gross income from source or sources consisting of a business not
exceeding fifty million ringgit for the basis period for that year of assessment at the
following rates:
Chargeable income RM Rate of
income tax
For every ringgit of the first 150,000 15 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 450,000 17 per cent
For every ringgit exceeding 600,000 24 per cent
2B. The provisions of paragraph 2A shall not apply to a company referred to in
that paragraph if more than—
(a) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the company is directly or indirectly owned by a related company;


Income Tax 417
(b) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the related company is directly or indirectly owned by the first
mentioned company;
(c) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the first mentioned company and the related company is directly or
indirectly owned by another company;
(d) twenty per cent of the paid-up capital in respect of ordinary shares
of the company at the beginning of the basis period for a year of
assessment is directly or indirectly owned by one or more
companies incorporated outside Malaysia or by one or more
individuals who are not citizens of Malaysia.
2C. For the purpose of paragraph 2B, “related company” means a company which
has a paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of more than two million and five
hundred thousand ringgit at the beginning of the basis period for a year of assessment.
2D. Subject to paragraphs 2E, 2F and 3, income tax shall be charged for a year of
assessment on the chargeable income of a limited liability partnership resident in
Malaysia which has a total contribution of capital (whether in cash or in kind) of two
million five hundred thousand ringgit and less at the beginning of the basis period
for a year of assessment and gross income from source or sources consisting of a
business not exceeding fifty million ringgit for the basis period for that year of
assessment at the following rates:
Chargeable income RM Rate of
income tax
For every ringgit of the first 150,000 15 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 450,000 17 per cent
For every ringgit exceeding 600,000 24 per cent
2E. The provisions of paragraph 2D shall not apply to a limited liability partnership
referred to in that paragraph if more than —
(a) fifty per cent of the capital contribution (whether in cash or in kind)
of the limited liability partnership is directly or indirectly
contributed by a company;
(b) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the company is directly or indirectly owned by the limited liability
partnership;


(c) fifty per cent of the capital contribution (whether in cash or in kind)
of the limited liability partnership and fifty per cent of the paid up
capital in respect of ordinary shares of the company is directly or
indirectly owned by another company;
(d) twenty per cent of the capital contribution (whether in cash or in
kind) of the limited liability partnership at the beginning of the basis
period for a year of assessment is directly or indirectly contributed
by one or more companies incorporated outside Malaysia or by one
or more individuals who are not citizens of Malaysia.
2F. The company referred to in paragraph 2E, other than another company referred
to in subparagraph 2E(c) and the company or companies incorporated outside
Malaysia referred to in subparagraph 2E(d), shall have a paid up capital in respect of
ordinary shares of more than two million and five hundred thousand ringgit at the
beginning of the basis period for a year of assessment.
3. Income tax shall be charged for a year of assessment on the chargeable income
of an insurer from a reinsurance business at the rate of 8 per cent on every ringgit of
the chargeable income.
4. Income tax shall be charged for a year of assessment on the chargeable income
of a takaful operator from a retakaful business at the rate of 8 per cent on every ringgit
of the chargeable income.
PART II
Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged on the following income at the
following rates–
Type of income Rate of income tax
1. Income of a non-resident person consisting of
interest (other than interest on an approved loan or
interest of the kind referred to in paragraph 33 of
Part I, Schedule 6) derived from Malaysia … 15% of gross
2. Income of a non-resident person consisting of
royalty derived from Malaysia … … … … … … 10% of gross
3. Income of a non-resident person (other than a
company) consisting of remuneration or other
income in respect of services performed or
rendered in Malaysia by a public entertainer … … 15% of gross


Income Tax 419
PART III
(Deleted by Act 451)
PART IV
Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged for a year of assessment upon
the chargeable income of every co-operative society at the following rates:
Chargeable Income RM Rate of income tax
For every ringgit of the first 30,000 0 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 30,000 5 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 40,000 10 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 50,000 15 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 100,000 18 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 250,000 21 per cent
For every ringgit of the next 250,000 23 per cent
For every ringgit exceeding 750,000 24 per cent
PART V
Notwithstanding Part I and Part II, income tax shall be charged on the income of a
non-resident person consisting of—
(i) amounts paid in consideration of services rendered by the person or
his employee in connection with the use of property or rights
belonging to, or the installation or operation of any plant, machinery
or other apparatus purchased from, such person;
(ii) amounts paid in consideration of any advice given, or assistance or
services rendered in connection with the management or
administration of any scientific, industrial or commercial
undertaking, venture, project or scheme; or
(iii) rent or other payments made under any agreement or arrangement
for the use of any moveable property,


which is derived from Malaysia at the rate of 10% of gross.
PART VI
Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged on the income of an individual
resident in Malaysia consisting of interest (other than interest exempt under this Act
or any order made thereto) accruing in or derived from Malaysia and received from
a person referred to in section 109C at the rate of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .5% of gross.
PART VII
(Deleted by Act 624)
PART VIII
Notwithstanding Part I and Part II, income tax shall be charged on the chargeable
income of a life fund, other than income arising from life
reinsurance business of a resident or non-resident insurer at the rate of .. .. .. 8 per
cent.
PART IX
Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged on the chargeable income of a
foreign fund management company in relation to the source consisting of the
provision of fund management services to foreign investors as referred to in
section 60G at the rate of .. .. .. 10 per cent for the years of assessment 2019 and 2020
and 24 per cent for the subsequent years of assessment.
PART X
1. Notwithstanding Part I—
(a) and subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), income tax shall be charged
for a year of assessment on the income of a unit holder other than a
unit holder which is a resident company consisting of income
distributed to the unit holder referred to in section 109D which is
derived from Malaysia at the rate of 10% of gross;
(b) and subject to paragraph (c), income tax shall be charged for a year
of assessment on the income of a unit holder which is a non-resident
company consisting of income distributed to the unit holder referred
to in section 109D which is derived from Malaysia at the rate of 24%


Income Tax 421
of gross for the year of assessment 2016 and subsequent years of
assessment; and
(c) and income tax shall be charged for a year of assessment on the
income of a unit holder which is a foreign institutional investor
consisting of income distributed to the unit holder referred to in
section 109D which is derived from Malaysia at the rate of 10% of
gross.
2. In this Part, “institutional investor” means a pension fund, collective investment
scheme or such other person approved by the Minister.
PART XI
Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged on the income of—
(a) a participant other than a participant which is a resident company
consisting of income distributed to that participant referred to in
section 109E which is derived from Malaysia at the rate of .. .. ..8%
of gross; and
(b) a participant which is a non-resident company consisting of income
distributed to that participant referred to in section 109E which is
derived from Malaysia at the rate of .. .. ..26% of gross for the year
of assessment 2008 and 25% of gross for the subsequent years of
assessment.
PART XII
Notwithstanding Part I and Part II, income tax shall be charged on the chargeable
income of a family fund referred to in section 60AA, other than income arising from
a family retakaful business of a resident or non-resident operator at the rate of .. .. ..
.. .. .. .. 8 per cent.
PART XIII
Notwithstanding Parts I and II but subject to Parts X, XI and XII, income tax shall be
charged on the income of a non-resident person consisting of gains or profits falling
under paragraph 4(f) which is derived from Malaysia at the rate of 10% of gross.


PART XIV
1. Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged for a year of assessment on
the chargeable income of an individual who is a knowledge worker and residing in a
specified region in respect of having or exercising employment with a person who is
carrying on a qualified activity in a specified region at the rate of 15 per cent on every
ringgit of that chargeable income.
2. In this Part—
(a) the knowledge worker, qualified activity and specified region
referred to in paragraph 1; and
(b) where the individual has income from a source other than the
employment referred to in paragraph 1 or where subsection 45(2)
applies, the chargeable income of the individual referred to in that
paragraph,
shall be as determined by the Minister by rules made under this Act.
PART XV
1. Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged for a specified year of
assessment on the chargeable income of an approved individual under the Returning
Expert Programme in respect of having or exercising employment with a person in
Malaysia at the rate of 15 per cent on every ringgit of that chargeable income.
2. In this Part—
(a) an approved individual and the specified year of assessment referred
to in paragraph 1; and
(b) where the individual has income from a source other than the
employment referred to in paragraph 1 or where subsection 45(2)
applies, the chargeable income of the individual referred to in that
paragraph,
shall be as determined by the Minister by rules made under this Act.
PART XVI
Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged for a year of assessment on the
total amount received by an individual in respect of withdrawal from a deferred
annuity or a private retirement scheme where such withdrawal is made before that
individual reaches the age of 55 (other than by reason of permanent total disablement,
serious disease, mental disability, death, permanently leaving Malaysia, healthcare


Income Tax 423
or housing, for which such withdrawal shall be in compliance with the criteria as set
out in the relevant guidelines of the Securities Commission at the rate of 8 per cent
on every ringgit of that contribution withdrawn.
PART XVII
1. Notwithstanding Part I, income tax shall be charged for a specified year of
assessment on the chargeable income of a person who carries on business in respect
of a qualifying activity under an incentive scheme approved by the Minister at the
rate of not more than 20 per cent on every ringgit of that chargeable income.
2. In this Part, the applicable rate, the specified year of assessment and the
conditions of the incentive scheme shall be as prescribed by the Minister.
PART XVIII
1. Notwithstanding Parts I and II, income tax shall be charged for a specified year
of assessment on the chargeable income of an individual resident who is not a citizen
having and exercising employment in a company which carries on business in respect
of a qualifying activity under an incentive scheme approved by the Minister at the
rate of not more than 20 per cent on every ringgit of that chargeable income.
2. In this Part, the applicable rate, the specified year of assessment and the
conditions of the incentive scheme shall be as prescribed by the Minister.
PART XIX
Notwithstanding Parts I, II and IV, income tax shall be charged for a year of
assessment on the income of a unit holder other than an individual referred to in
section 109DA which is derived from Malaysia at the rate of 24 per cent of gross.
PART XX
Notwithstanding Parts I and IV, income tax shall be charged on the income of a
person who is a resident which is received in Malaysia from outside Malaysia at the
rate of 3 per cent of gross.


SCHEDULE 2
[Section 34]
Deductions for Capital Expenditure on Mines
Qualifying mining expenditure
1. Subject to paragraph 2, qualifying mining expenditure for the purposes of this
Schedule is expenditure which is incurred in connection with the working of a mine
or in preparation for the working of a mine—
(a) on the acquisition of the mine or rights in or over the mine;
(b) on searching for, on discovering and testing or on winning access to
deposits of minerals;
(c) on the construction of any works or buildings which, when the mine
ceases to be worked, are likely to be of little or no value to any
person except in connection with the working of another mine; or
(d) on development, general administration or management before the
production of minerals begins or during any period when minerals
are not being produced.
2. Where a deduction has been made under section 44 pursuant to Schedule 4 (or
under any corresponding provision of any of the repealed laws as defined in Schedule
9) in respect of any expenditure, and that expenditure has not been added to any
aggregate income under paragraph 43(1)(c) pursuant to subparagraph 5(a) of
Schedule 4, that expenditure shall be deemed not to be qualifying mining expenditure
for the purposes of this Schedule.
Deductions for qualifying mining expenditure
3. Subject to this Schedule, where the business of a person consists or mainly
consists of the working of a mine with or without other mines (that business and that
person being in this Schedule referred to as the relevant business and the operator
respectively) and the operator has incurred qualifying mining expenditure in relation
to that mine, then, in the ascertainment of the adjusted income of the operator for the
basis period for a year of assessment from the relevant business there shall be allowed
pursuant to this Schedule as a deduction under section 34 from the gross income for
that period from the relevant business an amount arrived at by dividing the residual
expenditure at the end of that period by the residual life at the beginning of that
period.
4. (1) The operator shall, when he commences working a mine which forms part
of the relevant business and thereafter from time to time as may be necessary, furnish


Income Tax 425
to the Director General a written statement containing an estimate of the life of the
mine by reference to the number of years during which the winning and obtaining of
minerals from the mine may be expected to continue and setting out the calculations
on which that estimate is based; and the Director General, by reference to that
estimate or, where no or no proper or sufficient statement has been furnished under
this paragraph, by reference to a similar estimate made by him to the best of his
judgment shall from time to time as he thinks appropriate fix a figure of the number
of years of the life of the mine, and that number shall constitute the estimated life of
the mine for the purposes of this Schedule:
Provided that, if the commencement of working was before 1 January 1968, this
subparagraph shall not apply as regards that commencement but shall otherwise
apply from time to time as may be necessary.
(2) Except where any provision of paragraph 15 applies, a change in the
estimated life of a mine shall not affect a deduction which has been or could have
been made under section 34 pursuant to this Schedule in ascertaining adjusted
income from the relevant business for the basis period for a year of assessment if that
basis period ended before the change.
5. Where in a case to which section 41 applies it is necessary as regards a mine to
ascertain a deduction under section 34 pursuant to this Schedule in relation to an
accounting period of more or less than twelve months—
(a) the residual expenditure at the end of that period shall be divided by
the residual life at the beginning of that period; and
(b) the resulting figure shall be increased or decreased in the same
proportion as the length of that accounting period bears to a period
of twelve months and shall then constitute the amount of the
deduction.
Transfer of mine, etc.
6. Paragraphs 7 to 14 shall apply in relation to any particular mine forming part of
the relevant business with respect to which the operator has incurred qualifying
mining expenditure, and in those paragraphs—
“consideration” means consideration (not being in the nature of or representing
income) which is monetary or non-monetary or both;
“the mine” means the particular mine in question;
“mining asset” means either the mine or an asset on or for which the operator has
incurred qualifying mining expenditure in connection with or in preparation for the
working of the mine;


“other property” means property which is not a mining asset;
“value” means—
(a) in relation to monetary consideration, the amount of the
consideration;
(b) in relation to non-monetary consideration, the market value of the
consideration at the time of the transaction to which the
consideration relates.
7. Subject to paragraph 8—
(a) where the operator transfers a mining asset for a consideration, the
value of the consideration shall be deemed to be recovered
expenditure in relation to the mine and to be received by the
operator at the date of the transfer;
(b) where the operator receives any consideration for the granting of
any right in or over the mine or any part thereof, the value of the
consideration shall be deemed to be recovered expenditure in
relation to the mine and the operator; and
(c) where the operator receives any amount or property by way of
compensation, recoupment or otherwise for any qualifying mining
expenditure (being expenditure of a kind which does not produce a
mining asset) incurred by him in connection with or in preparation
for the working of the mine, that amount or the market value of that
property at the time of its receipt shall be deemed to be recovered
expenditure in relation to the mine and the operator.
8. Where the operator transfers a mining asset together with any other property,
then—
(a) if the transfer is made for an undivided consideration and the
operator and the transferee are able to agree how much of the value
of the consideration should be treated as given for the mining asset
and for the other property respectively, they shall within three
months of the transfer jointly furnish the Director General with a
written statement showing the apportionment of the consideration
as so agreed and, subject to subparagraph (c), the part of that value
apportioned to the mining asset shall be deemed to be recovered
expenditure in relation to the mine and to be received by the
operator at the date of the transfer;
(b) if the transfer is made for separate considerations, the operator shall
within three months of the transfer furnish the Director General with


Income Tax 427
a written statement showing the value of each consideration and,
subject to subparagraph (c), the value of the consideration shown in
that statement for the mining asset shall be deemed to be recovered
expenditure in relation to the mine and to be received by the relevant
person at the date of the transfer; and
(c) if the Director General is not satisfied with the apportionment
mentioned in subparagraph (a) or with any value shown in the
statement mentioned in subparagraph (b), or if there is a failure to
furnish a statement in accordance with either of those subparagraphs,
the Director General shall determine to the best of his judgment the
value of the consideration for the mining asset, and the value so
determined shall be deemed to be recovered expenditure in relation
to the mine and to be received by the operator at the date of the
transfer.
9. Where there is a transfer by the operator of a mining asset (with or without any
other property) together with a grant by the operator of a right of the kind mentioned
in subparagraph 7(b), then, for the purposes of paragraph 8—
(a) the grant shall be treated as forming part of the transfer of that asset;
and
(b) the right shall be treated as forming part of that asset,
and that paragraph shall apply accordingly with any necessary modifications.
10. Where the operator transfers a mining asset (with or without other property)
either—
(a) for an undivided consideration (as regards that asset and that other
property, if any) together with an amount or property of the kind
mentioned in subparagraph 7(c); or
(b) for separate considerations (as regards that asset and that other
property, if any) together with an amount or property of that kind,
paragraph 8 shall apply with any necessary modifications.
11. For the purposes of paragraphs 7 to 10—
(a) if any consideration consists partly of money and partly of non-
monetary property, the value of the monetary part of the
consideration and the value of the non-monetary part thereof shall,
whenever necessary, be aggregated or aggregated and apportioned,
as the case may require;


(b) if the subject matter of a transfer consists of two or more mines or
of a right in or over two or more mines, any amount apportioned
under those paragraphs to those mines shall be divided and
apportioned to each of those mines in the proportion that the residual
expenditure in relation to each of those mines at the date of the
transfer bears to the total of the residual expenditure in relation to
those mines.
12. Where the operator transfers the mine and at the date of the transfer the residual
expenditure ascertained immediately before that date exceeds the difference
between—
(a) the total amount of all the operator’s recovered expenditure received
on or before that date; and
(b) the total amount of all his recovered expenditure received prior to
that date,
the amount of the excess shall be allowed pursuant to this Schedule under section 34
as a deduction from his gross income from the relevant business for the basis period
(being the basis period appropriate to the relevant business for a year of assessment)
in which the transfer was made.
13. (1) Where the operator has incurred expenditure in relation to the transfer to
him of the mine and any other matter or thing appertaining to the mine, that
expenditure shall be treated as qualifying mining expenditure incurred by the
operator in respect of the mine.
(2) (Deleted by Act A226).
14. Where in relation to the mine there takes place a transaction as a result of which
an amount would (but for this paragraph) fall to be treated under any provision of
paragraphs 6 to 13 as recovered expenditure of the operator in relation to the mine
and—
(a) the operator is a person over whom the other party to the transaction
has control;
(b) that other party is a person over whom the operator has control;
(c) some other person has control over both the operator and that other
party;
(d) the transaction takes place pursuant to a scheme of reconstruction
or amalgamation of companies; or


Income Tax 429
(e) the Director General is of the opinion that the transaction is or forms
part of a transaction to which section 140 applies,
the residual expenditure referable to the mine or any other mining asset immediately
before the date of that first-mentioned transaction shall be deemed in the hands of
the operator to be recovered expenditure received at that date and in the hands of that
other party to be qualifying mining expenditure incurred at that date; and paragraphs
6 to 13 shall not apply in relation to that first-mentioned transaction.
Cessation of Working
15. Where in the basis period for a year of assessment the operator permanently
ceases to work a mine (otherwise than upon his death of the transfer of the mine by
him to any other person), recovered expenditure received by him after the date of the
cessation of working shall (notwithstanding any provision of paragraphs 7 to 10) be
treated as if it had been received on that date and—
(a) if he so elects, the deductions to be made under section 34 in respect
of amounts allowed pursuant to this Schedule in computing his
adjusted income from the relevant business for that basis period and
for the basis period for each of the four immediately preceding years
of assessment (or, if he commenced to work the mine in the basis
period for one of those four years other than the earliest thereof, for
that first-mentioned basis period and for the basis period being a
basis period in which the mine was worked by him for each of the
preceding years of assessment) shall be computed as regards each
such basis period as if the reference in paragraph 3 to the residual
life at the beginning of the basis period were a reference to what the
residual life would be if the estimated life were taken to be equal to
the number of complete years from the beginning of the first such
basis period to the date of cessation of working; and
(b) such repayments of tax and assessments shall be made as are
necessary to give effect to this paragraph.
Supplemental provisions
16. Where two or more separate and distinct sets of mining operations are carried
on over a source of minerals and none of those sets of operations is carried on
contiguously to another of those sets of operations, each of those sets of operations
shall be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as being carried on in the working
of a separate mine:
Provided that, where a deduction has been given under section 34 in respect of any
amount allowed pursuant to this Schedule for qualifying mining expenditure in
respect of any such separate mine, no amount shall be allowed pursuant to this
Schedule for that expenditure in respect of any other such separate mine and that


expenditure shall not be treated as qualifying mining expenditure incurred in respect
of that other mine.
17. (1) A person shall not be treated as working a mine for the purposes of this
Schedule unless he is actively engaged in working the mine and his gross income
from a business of his includes the proceeds of sale of minerals won or obtained by
working the mine.
(2) A person is not actively engaged in working a mine within the meaning of
subparagraph (1) if he has sublet the mine or authorized any other person to work the
mine on payment of a premium, rent or tribute (by whatever name called).
18. Where—
(a) the relevant business consists of or includes the working of a mine;
and
(b) the working of that mine begins at any time in the basis period
appropriate to the relevant business for a year of assessment,
the number of years of the life of the mine at the time when the working of that mine
began shall, in ascertaining the residual life for the purposes of paragraph 3, be
deemed to be the number of years of the life of the mine at the beginning of that
period.
19. (Deleted by Act A226).
20. (Deleted by Act A226).
21. (Deleted by Act A226).
22. In this Schedule—
“estimated life”, in relation to a mine, means the figure of the number of years of
the life of the mine fixed from time to time by the Director General under
subparagraph 4(1) as the estimated life of the mine;
“recovered expenditure” means any amount ascertained in accordance with
paragraphs 6 to 11 or paragraph 14 to be recovered expenditure in relation to any
particular mine forming part of the relevant business;
“residual expenditure”, in relation to any particular mine forming part of the
relevant business and to any particular date, means the total qualifying mining
expenditure incurred in respect of that mine before the date by the operator, reduced
by the amount of—


Income Tax 431
(a) any deductions made under section 34 pursuant to this Schedule in
respect of that expenditure from the gross income of the operator
from the relevant business for the basis period for any year of
assessment, being a basis period ending before that date; and
(b) any recovered expenditure in relation to that mine received by the
operator on or before that date;
“residual life”, in relation to any particular mine forming part of the relevant
business and to any particular date, means the number of years of the estimated life
of the mine remaining at that date.
SCHEDULE 3
[Section 42]
Capital Allowances and Charges
Qualifying expenditure
1. Subject to this Schedule, qualifying expenditure for the purposes of this
Schedule is qualifying plant expenditure or qualifying building expenditure within
the meaning of paragraphs 2 to 6.
2. (1) Subject to subparagraph (2) and paragraph 67, qualifying plant expenditure
is capital expenditure incurred on the provision of machinery or plant used for the
purposes of a business, including—
(a) expenditure incurred on the alteration of an existing building for the
purpose of installing that machinery or plant and other expenditure
incurred incidentally to the installation thereof; and
(b) expenditure incurred on preparing, cutting, tunneling or levelling
land in order to prepare a site for the installation of that machinery
or plant but if the expenditure exceeds ten per cent of the aggregate
of itself and any other expenditure (being qualifying plant
expenditure) incurred for the purposes of the business this
subparagraph shall not apply;
(c) expenditure incurred on fish ponds, animal pens, chicken houses,
cages, buildings (other than those used wholly or partly for the
living accommodation of a director, an individual having control of
that business or an individual who is a member of the management,


administrative or clerical staff engaged in the business), and other
structural improvements on land which are used for the purposes of
poultry farms, animal farms, inland fishing industry or other
agricultural or pastoral pursuits.
(2) In the case of a motor vehicle, other than a motor vehicle licensed by the
appropriate authority for commercial transportation of goods or passengers, the
qualifying plant expenditure incurred on or after the first day of the basis period for
the year of assessment 1991 shall be limited to a maximum of fifty thousand ringgit:
Provided that where the qualifying plant expenditure is incurred on a motor vehicle
purchased on or after 28 October 2000, the maximum amount shall be increased to
not more than one hundred thousand ringgit if the motor vehicle has not been used
prior to purchase and the total cost of the motor vehicle does not exceed one hundred
and fifty thousand ringgit:
Provided further that where the qualifying plant expenditure is incurred between
the period from 28 October 2000 to 31 December 2000, and that period forms part
of the basis period of a person for the year of assessment prior to the year of
assessment 2001, that expenditure shall be deemed for the purposes of this Schedule
to be incurred in the basis period for the year of assessment 2001.
2A. Subject to this Schedule, where any person had in use machinery or plant for a
non-business purpose, and that machinery or plant is subsequently brought into use
for the purposes of a business of his, he is deemed to have incurred qualifying plant
expenditure in relation to that machinery or plant and the amount of the qualifying
plant expenditure shall be taken to be the market value of the machinery or plant on
the day the machinery or plant was so brought into use.
2B. (Deleted by Act 644).
2C. Subject to this Schedule, where machinery or plant is brought into use for the
purposes of a business in Malaysia by any person and prior thereto the machinery or
plant had been used for the purposes of a business outside Malaysia, the person shall
be deemed to have incurred qualifying plant expenditure and the amount of the
qualifying plant expenditure in respect thereof shall be taken to be the market value
or the net book value of the machinery or plant, whichever is the lower, on the day
the machinery or plant was so brought into use in Malaysia.
2D. For the purpose of paragraph 1, the capital expenditure incurred by a person on
the provision of machinery or plant shall not include any amount paid to a non-
resident person in consideration of services rendered in connection with the
installation or operation of that machinery or plant, if tax has not been deducted
therefrom and paid to the Director General under paragraph 109B(1)(a) of the Act:
2E. For the purpose of paragraph 1, the qualifying expenditure incurred by a person
shall not include any amount paid or to be paid in respect of goods and services tax


Income Tax 433
as input tax by the person if he is liable to be registered under the Goods and Services
Tax Act 2014 and has failed to do so, or if he is entitled under that Act to credit that
amount as input tax.
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply if the person has paid the amount
referred to in subsection 109B(2).
3. (1) Subject to paragraph 6, qualifying building expenditure is capital
expenditure incurred on the construction or purchase of a building which is used at
any time after its construction or purchase, as the case may be, as an industrial
building.
(2) For the purpose of this Schedule, the qualifying building expenditure in the
case of purchase of a building shall be the amount of the purchase price of that
building.
3A. (Deleted by Act 639).
4. (Deleted by Act 639).
5. (Deleted by Act 639).
6. Qualifying building expenditure does not include—
(a) subject to paragraph 67, expenditure which is qualifying plant
expenditure for the purposes of this Schedule;
(b) subject to paragraph 42, expenditure which is qualifying agriculture
expenditure for the purposes of this Schedule; or
(c) expenditure which is qualifying mining expenditure for the
purposes of Schedule 2.
Qualifying agriculture expenditure
7. (1) Subject to this Schedule, qualifying agriculture expenditure for the
purposes of this Schedule is capital expenditure incurred by a person on—
(a) the clearing and preparation of land for the purposes of agriculture;
(b) the planting (but not replanting) of crops on land cleared for
planting;
(c) the construction on a farm of a road or bridge;
(d) the construction on a farm of a building used for the purposes of a
business of that person which consists wholly or partly of the
working of the farm, or the construction on that farm of a building


which is provided by that person for the welfare of persons, or as
living accommodation for a person, employed in or in connection
with the working of that farm and which, if the farm ceases to be
worked, is likely to be of little or no value to any person except in
connection with the working of another farm.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, “agriculture” includes the reforestation
of timber.
Qualifying forest expenditure
8. (1) Subject to this Schedule, qualifying forest expenditure for the purposes of
this Schedule is capital expenditure incurred only by a person who has a concession
or licence to extract timber on the construction in a forest of—
(a) a road or building used for the purposes of a business of his which
consists wholly or partly of the extraction of timber from the forest;
or
(b) a building provided by him for the welfare of persons, or as living
accommodation for a person, employed in or in connection with
such extraction,
and which, if the forest ceases to be used for such extraction, would be likely to be
of little or no value to any person except in connection with the extraction of timber
from another forest or with a business which consists wholly or partly of the working
of a farm.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, “forest”, in relation to a person, means a
forest in respect of which he has a concession or a licence to extract timber therefrom,
being a forest in use by him for the extraction of timber therefrom for the purposes
of a business of his which consists wholly or partly of that extraction.
Qualifying renovation or refurbishment expenditure
8A. (1) Subject to this Schedule, qualifying renovation or refurbishment
expenditure for the purposes of this Schedule is capital expenditure incurred by a
person on renovation or refurbishment of a premises which is used for the purpose
of a business of his.
(2) For the purposes of this Schedule, the qualifying renovation or refurbishment
expenditure shall be an amount incurred by a person between the period from 10
March 2009 to 31 December 2010 and the total amount of expenditure for that period
in respect of all of his sources consisting of a business shall not exceed one hundred
thousand ringgit.
(3) Qualifying renovation or refurbishment expenditure does not include—


Income Tax 435
(a) expenditure which is qualifying plant expenditure for the purposes
of this Schedule;
(b) expenditure which is qualifying agriculture expenditure for the
purposes of this Schedule;
(c) expenditure which is qualifying forest expenditure for the purposes
of this Schedule; and
(d) expenditure which is qualifying mining expenditure for the
purposes of Schedule 2.
8B. For the purpose of paragraphs 8A and 32B of this Schedule renovation or
refurbishment expenditure shall be an expenditure prescribed by the Minister.
Qualifying expenditure: initial allowances
9. An allowance made under paragraphs 10 and 12 shall be known as an initial
allowance.
10. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person has for the purpose of a business of his incurred qualifying plant expenditure,
there shall be made to him in relation to the source consisting of that business for
that year an allowance equal to one-fifth of the expenditure or such other fraction as
may be prescribed.
11. (Deleted by Act A1028).
11A. (Deleted by Act A1028).
12. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred qualifying building
expenditure on the construction or purchase of a building, there shall be made to him
in relation to the source consisting of that business for that year an allowance equal
to one tenth of that expenditure.
13. Notwithstanding paragraphs 10 and 12—
(a) no allowance shall be made to a person under paragraph 10 for a
year of assessment in relation to an asset and a business of his if at
the end of the basis period for that year he was not the owner of the
asset or it was not in use for the purposes of the business or, where
the asset was disposed of by him in that period, he was not the owner
of the asset or it was not in use, prior to its disposal, for the purposes
of the business at some time in that period;
(b) (Deleted by Act A1028);


(c) no allowance shall be made to a person under paragraph 12 for a
year of assessment in relation to an asset and a business of his if at
the end of the basis period for that year he was not the owner of the
asset or it was not in use or was not about to be used as an industrial
building or, where the asset was disposed of by him in that period,
it was not in use, prior to its disposal, for the purposes of a business
of his as an industrial building at some time in that period;
(d) where an allowance has been made to a person under paragraph 12
for a year of assessment in relation to a building and a business of
his and that building was not in use or was not about to be used as
an industrial building for the purposes of that business of his at some
time in the basis period for the next following year of assessment, a
balancing charge equal to the amount of the allowance shall be made
on him in relation to that business for that year of assessment for
which the allowance was given.
13A. Notwithstanding paragraph 10 no initial allowance shall be made to a person
for a year of assessment in relation to an asset and a business of his referred to in
paragraph 2A, 2B or 2C, as the case may be.
Qualifying expenditure: annual allowances
14. An allowance made under paragraphs 15 to 16A shall be known as an annual
allowance.
15. Subject to this Schedule, where a person has for the purposes of a business of
his, incurred qualifying plant expenditure in relation to an asset and at the end of the
basis period for a year of assessment he was the owner of the asset and it was in use
for the purposes of the business, there shall be made to him in relation to the source
consisting of that business for that year an allowance equal to such proportion of that
expenditure as may be prescribed.
15A. (Deleted by Act 619).
16. Subject to this Schedule, where a person has for the purposes of a business of
his incurred qualifying building expenditure on the construction or purchase of a
building and at the end of the basis period for a year of assessment he was the owner
of the building and it was in use as an industrial building for the purposes of the
business, there shall be made to him in relation to the source consisting of that
business for that year an allowance equal to three hundredth or such other fraction as
may be prescribed of that expenditure.
16A. Subject to this Schedule, where a person has incurred qualifying building
expenditure on the construction of a building to which paragraph 67B applies and at
the end of the basis period for a year of assessment the building was on lease to the
Government, there shall be made to him in relation to the income from that lease for


Income Tax 437
that year an allowance equal to three-fiftieths or such other fraction as may be
prescribed of that expenditure.
16B. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Schedule, no allowance
shall be made to a person under paragraphs 12 and 16 for a year of assessment in
respect of any expenditure incurred in relation to paragraphs 37A, 37B, 37C, 37E, 37F,
37G, 37H, 42A, 42B and 42C of this Schedule relating to industrial building where the
building or part thereof is used by that person for the purpose of letting of property
including the business of letting of such property.
(2) Where part of the building used by that person referred to in
paragraphs 37A, 37B, 37C, 37E, 37F, 37G, 37H, 42A, 42B and 42C for the purpose of
letting of property is not more than one-tenth of the floor area of the whole building,
the whole building qualifies as industrial building under those paragraphs.
(3) Where part of the building used by that person referred to in
subparagraph (2) is more than one-tenth of the floor area of the whole building, such
part of the building shall not be treated as industrial building for the purpose of those
paragraphs and any allowance to be made to that person under those paragraphs shall
consist of so much of what would have been the amount of allowance claimed on the
expenditure incurred on the floor area on the part of the building which is not used
by that person for the purpose of letting of property.
17. (Deleted by Act 619).
18. An allowance made to a person in relation to a business of his under
paragraph 15 or 16 for a year of assessment in respect of any expenditure in relation
to an asset shall not exceed the amount of the residual expenditure at the end of the
basis period for that year.
19. Where in relation to any particular asset the Director General is of the opinion
that the proportion prescribed under paragraph 15 is too high or too low having
regard to the use of which the asset is put, he may give a direction for such other
proportion as he considers appropriate to be adopted in relation to the qualifying
plant expenditure.
Special allowances for small value assets
19A. (1) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a person for the
purposes of a business of his incurred qualifying plant expenditure in relation to an
asset or assets, the value of each asset being not more than two thousand ringgit, and
at the end of the basis period he was the owner of the asset and it was in use for the
purposes of the business, there shall be made in lieu of the amount of the allowance
which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraph 10 or 15, an allowance
equal to the amount of that expenditure for that year of assessment:


Provided that where the total qualifying plant expenditure in respect of such asset
for each year of assessment exceeds the amount of twenty thousand ringgit, the total
allowance that shall be made in respect of that expenditure under this paragraph shall
be equal to such amount.
(2) Allowance under paragraph 10 or 15 in respect of the qualifying plant
expenditure referred to in subparagraph (1)—
(a) shall be made a person if that person has not made a claim in respect
of that expenditure under that subparagraph; or
(b) shall not be made to that person in respect of that expenditure which
has been given allowance under that subparagraph.
(3) The proviso to subparagraph (1) shall not apply to a company resident and
incorporated in Malaysia which has a paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
two million and five hundred thousand ringgit and less at the beginning of the basis
period for a year of assessment and gross income from source or sources consisting
of a business not exceeding fifty million ringgit for the basis period for that year of
assessment.
(4) A company referred to in subparagraph (3) shall not include a company
where more than—
(a) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the second mentioned company is directly or indirectly owned by a
related company;
(b) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the related company is directly or indirectly owned by the second
mentioned company; or
(c) fifty per cent of the paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of
the second mentioned company and the related company is directly
or indirectly owned by another company.
(5) For the purpose of subparagraph (4), “related company” means a company
which has a paid up capital in respect of ordinary shares of more than two million
and five hundred thousand ringgit at the beginning of the basis period for a year of
assessment.
Agriculture allowances
20. An allowance made under paragraph 22 or 23 shall be known as an agriculture
allowance.


Income Tax 439
21. A person entitled to an agriculture allowance in respect of any expenditure shall
not be entitled to an allowance under any other paragraph in respect of the same
expenditure.
22. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred qualifying agriculture
expenditure on the construction of—
(a) a building for the welfare of persons or as living accommodation for
a person referred to in subparagraph 7(1)(d) there shall be made to
him in relation to the source consisting of that business for that year
and for each of the four following years of assessment an allowance
equal to one-fifth of that expenditure; and
(b) any other building referred to in subparagraph 7(1)(d) there shall be
made to him in relation to the source consisting of that business for
that year and for each of the nine following years of assessment an
allowance equal to one-tenth of that expenditure.
22A. (Deleted by Act A643).
23. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred qualifying agriculture
expenditure to which paragraph 22 does not apply, there shall be made to him in
relation to the source consisting of that business for that year and for the following
year of assessment an allowance equal to one-half of that expenditure.
24. Subject to this Schedule, where a person (in this paragraph referred to as the
transmitter) would but for this paragraph be entitled to an agriculture allowance for
a year of assessment in respect of qualifying agriculture expenditure incurred by him
in relation to an asset for the purposes of a business of his and in the basis period for
that year that asset is transferred or transmitted by operation of law or otherwise to
some other person (in this paragraph referred to as the recipient)—
(a) the transmitter shall for that year be entitled to only a part of that
allowance, being a part which bears the same proportion to the
whole of that allowance as the number of days comprised in the
period which begins at the beginning of that basis period and ends
on the day of transfer or transmission bears to the number three
hundred and sixty-five; and
(b) where the asset is—
(i) a farm used by the recipient for the purposes of a business of
his which consists wholly or partly of the working of the
farm; or


(ii) a building which is used by the recipient for the purposes of
that business and is adjacent to or closely in the vicinity of
that farm or another farm of his forming part of that business,
the recipient shall be entitled for the year of assessment in the basis period for which
the transfer or transmission took place to the other part of that allowance, and for
subsequent years of assessment to any agriculture allowance which would have been
made to the transmitter if the asset had not been transferred or transmitted and had
continued to be owned and used by the transmitter for the purposes of his business
at all material times.
25. Notwithstanding paragraphs 22 to 24, no agriculture allowance shall be made
to a person for a year of assessment in relation to an asset and a business of his—
(a) where the asset is transferred or transmitted in the basis period for
that year, if it was not in use for the purposes of the business within
one month (or such further period as the Director General may
allow) before that transfer or transmission took place; or
(b) in any other case, if at the end of the basis period for that year he
was not the owner of the asset or it was not in use for the purposes
of the business.
26. (Deleted by Act 755).
27. Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a person disposes of an asset
and in relation to that asset and a business of his an agriculture allowance has been
made to him for a year of assessment, and the qualifying agriculture expenditure
incurred in relation to that asset was incurred over a period ending on a particular
day and the disposal of the asset took place less than five years after that day, there
shall be made on him in relation to the source consisting of that business for that
first-mentioned year of assessment an agriculture charge equal to the amount of—
(a) that agriculture allowance; or
(b) where an agriculture allowance in relation to that asset has been
made to him for more than one year of assessment, the aggregate of
all those allowances for all those years,
and where that asset is disposed of by that person after the end of the basis period
(for a year of assessment) in which that business has permanently ceased to be carried
on by him, the disposal shall be deemed to have been made in that basis period:
Provided that within three months (or such further period as the Director General
may allow) of the beginning of the year of assessment following that first-mentioned
year of assessment or, where that asset was disposed of by that person after the end
of that last-mentioned basis period, the year of assessment following that in which


Income Tax 441
he disposed of that asset, he may by notice in writing delivered to the Director
General elect that the amount of any agriculture charge falling to be made on him in
respect of the amount of that aggregate for that first-mentioned year be divided by
the number of years of assessment for which those allowances were made; and an
agriculture charge equal to the amount resulting from that division shall be made on
him in relation to the source consisting of that business for each of those years of
assessment.
Forest allowances and forest charges
28. An allowance made under paragraph 30, 30A or 31 shall be known as a forest
allowance and a charge made under paragraph 32 shall be known as a forest charge.
29. A person entitled to a forest allowance in respect of any expenditure shall not
be entitled to an allowance under any other paragraph in respect of the same
expenditure.
30. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred qualifying forest expenditure
on the construction of—
(a) a building of the kind referred to in subparagraph 8(1)(b) there shall
be allowed to him in relation to the source consisting of that
business for that year and for each of the four following years of
assessment an allowance equal to one-fifth of that expenditure; and
(b) a road or buildings of the kind referred to in subparagraph 8(1)(a)
there shall be made to him in relation to the source consisting of that
business for that year and each of the nine following years of
assessment an allowance equal to one-tenth of that expenditure.
30A. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment
prior to the year of assessment 1970 a person has for the purposes of a business of
his incurred qualifying forest expenditure on the construction of a building of the
kind referred to in subparagraph 8(1)(b) and a forest allowance was made to him in
relation to the source consisting of that business for a year of assessment prior to the
year of assessment 1970 in respect of that expenditure there shall be allowed to him
for the year of assessment 1970 and for each of the four following years of
assessment an allowance equal to one-fifth of the difference between that qualifying
forest expenditure and the forest allowances made to him in respect of that qualifying
expenditure for years of assessment prior to the year of assessment 1970.
31. Where a person in relation to a business of his in the basis period for a year of
assessment permanently ceases to extract timber from a forest in relation to which
he has incurred qualifying forest expenditure, there shall be made to him in relation
to the source consisting of that business for that year an allowance in an amount equal
to the excess, if any, of that expenditure over the total of any allowances made to him


under paragraph 30 or 30A in relation to that expenditure; and he shall not be entitled
to an allowance under paragraph 30 or 30A in relation to that expenditure for any
year of assessment subsequent to that first-mentioned year of assessment.
32. (1) Where a person who in relation to a business of his and a forest has
incurred qualifying forest expenditure disposes of that forest, there shall be made on
him in relation to the source consisting of that business for the year of assessment in
the basis period for which the disposal took place a forest charge equal to the amount
of any allowance or to the aggregate amount of any allowances made to him in
relation to that expenditure under paragraph 30, 30A or 31; and where a forest is
disposed of by that person after the end of the basis period (for a year of assessment)
in which that business has permanently ceased to be carried on by him, the disposal
shall be deemed to have been made in that basis period:
Provided that within three months (or such further period as the Director General
may allow) of the beginning of the year of assessment following that year in which
he disposed of the forest he may by notice in writing delivered to the Director General
elect that the amount of that forest charge be divided by the number of years of
assessment for which those allowances were made, and in lieu of that charge a forest
charge equal to the amount resulting from that division shall be made on him in
relation to the source consisting of that business for each of those years of
assessment.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, a person shall be taken to have disposed
of a forest if, having a concession or licence to extract timber therefrom, he transfers
or assigns that concession or licence or surrenders that concession or licence for
valuable consideration.
Renovation or refurbishment allowances
32A. (1) Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of
assessment a person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred qualifying
renovation or refurbishment expenditure, there shall be made to him in relation to the
source consisting of that business for that year and the immediate following year of
assessment an allowance equal to one-half of that expenditure.
(2) No renovation or refurbishment allowances shall be made to a person for a
year of assessment and a business of his, if at the end of the basis period for that year
of assessment the premises which has been renovated or refurbished is not in use by
that person for the purpose of his business.
32B. Subject to paragraph 8A, where a person incurs between the period from 10
March 2009 to 31 December 2010 capital expenditure on renovation or
refurbishment of a premises which is used for the purpose of a business and such
capital expenditure qualifies both as qualifying renovation or refurbishment
expenditure and qualifying building expenditure, that person shall elect to claim an


Income Tax 443
allowance in respect of that capital expenditure as qualifying renovation or
refurbishment expenditure, or qualifying building expenditure.
Qualifying expenditure: balancing allowances and balancing charges
33. Allowances made under paragraph 34 and charges made under paragraph 35
shall be known as balancing allowances and balancing charges respectively.
34. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person disposes of an asset in relation to which he has incurred qualifying
expenditure for the purposes of a business of his and the residual expenditure at the
date of its disposal exceeds its disposal value, there shall be made to him in relation
to the source consisting of that business for that year an allowance equal to the
amount of the excess.
35. Subject to this Schedule, where in the basis period for a year of assessment a
person disposes of an asset in relation to which he has incurred qualifying
expenditure for the purposes of a business of his and its disposal value exceeds the
residual expenditure at the date of its disposal, there shall be made on him in relation
to that business source for that year a charge equal to the amount of the excess.
36. No allowance shall be made for a year of assessment under paragraph 34 to a
person in relation to an asset which has been disposed of unless an initial or annual
allowance in relation to that asset has been made or would have been made, if
claimed, to him:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply in respect of any amount incurred
under paragraph 67C.
37. A charge made on a person under paragraph 35 in relation to an asset shall not
exceed the total of all allowances made to him under this Schedule in relation to that
asset.
Qualifying expenditure: Licensed private hospital, maternity home
and nursing home
37A. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial building shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to a private hospital, maternity home and nursing home licensed
under the provisions of any written law for the time being in force relating to
registration of private hospital, maternity home and nursing home, or where no such
law is in force, approved by the Director General after consultation with the Director
General of Health; and in such application the reference to capital expenditure
incurred on the construction of a building shall include any capital expenditure
incurred on the alteration or renovation of rented premises for the purpose of carrying
on therein a private hospital, maternity home or nursing home.


Qualifying expenditure: Building used for research
37B. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial building shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to a building or part thereof being in use for the purpose of—
(a) research and development approved by the Minister within the
meaning of subsection 34A(1) and subsection 34B(4); or
(b) (Deleted by Act 693);
(c) (Deleted by Act 544);
(d) (Deleted by Act 693);
(e) research and development undertaken by a research and
development company or a contract research and development
company as defined in section 2 of the Promotion of Investments
Act 1986,
and in such application, the reference to capital expenditure incurred on the
construction of a building or part thereof, shall include any capital expenditure
incurred on the alteration or renovation of rented premises for the purpose of carrying
on therein such research and development, and the building or part thereof shall be
deemed to be in use for the purposes of the business referred to in section 34A,
notwithstanding that in the case of research and development referred to in
subparagraph (a), such research and development is not related to that business.
Qualifying expenditure: Building used for warehouse
37C. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial building shall apply
mutatis mutandis, to a building or part thereof used by a person solely for the purpose
of storage of goods for export or for the storage of imported goods which are to be
processed and distributed or re-exported and there shall be substituted for the amount
of the allowance which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraph 12
or 16 an allowance of an amount equal to one-tenth of the qualifying expenditure for
that year and for each of the nine following years of assessment.
Qualifying expenditure: Machinery or plant used for research and development
37D. The provisions of this Schedule relating to qualifying plant expenditure shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to capital expenditure incurred on the provision of
machinery or plant used for the purposes of research and development approved by
the Minister within the meaning of section 34A; and in such application the
machinery or plant shall be deemed to be in use for the purposes of the business
referred to in section 34A, notwithstanding that such research and development is not
related to that business.


Income Tax 445
Qualifying expenditure: Building used for approved
service project
37E. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial buildings shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to a building or part thereof used by a person solely for the purpose
of the provision of services and modernization of operations in relation to an
approved service project as defined under Schedule 7B.
Qualifying expenditure: Building used for hotel
37F. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial buildings shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to a building or part thereof used by a person solely for the purpose
of an hotel and that hotel is registered with the Ministry of Tourism.
Qualifying expenditure: Airport
37G. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial buildings shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to an airport and the reference to capital expenditure incurred in
relation to that airport shall include the capital expenditure on the construction,
reconstruction, extension, improvement or purchase of any building, runaway or
ancillary structures.
Qualifying expenditure: Motor racing circuit
37H. The provisions of this Schedule relating to industrial buildings shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to a motor racing circuit approved by the Minister and the
reference to capital expenditure incurred in relation to that motor racing circuit shall
include the capital expenditure on the construction, reconstruction, extension or
improvement of that motor racing circuit or ancillary structures.
Disposal subject to control, etc.
38. (1) Paragraphs 39 and 40 shall apply where a person disposes of an asset in
relation to which an initial or annual allowance or an agriculture allowance or forest
allowance has been made or would have been made, if claimed, to him and at the
time of the disposal—
(a) the disposer of the asset is a person over whom the acquirer of the
asset has control;
(b) the acquirer of the asset is a person over whom the disposer of the
asset has control;
(c) some other person has control over the disposer and acquirer of the
asset;


(d) the disposal is effected in consequence of a scheme of
reconstruction or amalgamation of companies; or
(e) the disposal is effected by way of a settlement or gift or by
devolution of the property in the asset on death,
the disposer of the asset, the asset in question and the acquirer of the asset being in
those paragraphs referred to as the disposer, the asset and the acquirer respectively.
(2) In this paragraph “control”, in relation to a company, means the power of a
person to secure, by means of the holding of shares or the possession of voting power
in or in relation to that or any other company, or by virtue of any powers conferred
by the articles of association or other document regulating that or any other company,
that the affairs of the first-mentioned company are conducted in accordance with the
wishes of that person, and, in relation to a partnership, means the right to a share of
more than one-half of the assets of the partnership, or to more than one-half of the
divisible profits of partnership, or in relation to a limited liability partnership, means
the right to a share of more than one-half of the capital contribution whether in cash
or in kind of the limited liability partnership and in relation to business trust, means
the right to not less than fifty per cent of residual profits of the business trust available
for distribution, or not less than fifty per cent of any residual assets of the business
trust available for distribution on a winding up.
38A. (1) Paragraphs 39 and 40 shall apply where a company disposes of an asset
in respect of industrial building to a unit trust in relation to which an initial or annual
allowance has been made or would have been made, if claimed, to the company.
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph—
(a) “unit trust” has the same meaning assigned to it in section 61A; and
(b) “company” means a company which holds not less than fifty per cent
of residual profits of the unit trust available for distribution, or not less
than fifty per cent of any residual assets of the unit trust available for
distribution on a winding up.
38B. Paragraphs 39 and 40 shall apply where a partnership or a company is
converted into a limited liability partnership in accordance with section 29 or 30 of
the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2012 and the partnership or that company
disposes of an asset to that limited liability partnership in relation to which an initial
or annual allowance has been made or would have been made, if claimed by the
partnership or the company.
39. (1) Subject to any rules made under paragraph 40, the disposal of the asset
shall be deemed to have taken place on the first day of the disposer’s final period for
a sum equal to the disposer’s residual expenditure on that day.


Income Tax 447
(2) In this paragraph “the disposer’s final period” means, in relation to the
disposal and acquisition of the asset, the basis period (appropriate to the disposer’s
business for the purposes of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred in
relation to the asset) for the year of assessment which coincides with the first year of
assessment for which an initial or annual allowance may be made to the acquirer in
relation to the asset if it is used for the purposes of a business carried on by the
acquirer or as an industrial building.
40. Any qualifying expenditure incurred by the acquirer in relation to the asset to
which regard would be had but for this paragraph shall be disregarded for the
purposes of this Schedule and the acquirer shall be deemed to have incurred
qualifying expenditure in relation to the asset of an amount equal to the sum
ascertained under paragraph 39 in relation to the asset; and in relation to the asset—
(a) the date on which the acquirer shall be treated as having incurred
the expenditure so deemed to have been incurred by him;
(b) the withdrawal of any allowance which would but for paragraph 39
and this paragraph fall to be made to the disposer;
(c) the amount of any allowance or charge to be made to or on the
acquirer; and
(d) such other matters as may be considered necessary by the Minister,
shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed by rules to be made for the
purposes of paragraphs 38, 38A, 38B, 39 and this paragraph.
Asset used in more than one business
41. In any case where a person has incurred qualifying expenditure in relation to
an asset and any one or more of the following circumstances are found—
(a) that expenditure was incurred for and that asset is used for the
purposes of two or more businesses of his;
(b) that expenditure was incurred and the asset was used for the
purposes of one business of his and thereafter the asset is used in
that business and in another business, or two or more other
businesses, of his;
(c) that expenditure was incurred and the asset was used for the
purposes of one business of his and thereafter the asset ceases to be
used in that business and is used in another business, or two or more
other businesses, of his; or


(d) after any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding
subparagraphs, the asset is disposed of or, where it was used in two
or more businesses of his, it was disposed of in relation to one or
more of those businesses,
the amount of any initial or annual allowances to be made to that person from time
to time in any of those circumstances and any balancing allowance or balancing
charge to be made on him on the disposal of the asset, and such other matters as may
be considered necessary by the Minister, shall be determined in such manner as may
be prescribed by rules made for the purposes of this paragraph.
Certain buildings treated as industrial buildings
42. (1) Where an industrial building is in use in the basis period for a year of
assessment for the purposes of a business of a person and a building is constructed
by him and provided by him as living accommodation for an individual employed by
him in that business, that last-mentioned building shall be treated as an industrial
building in use as an industrial building for the purposes of that business at any time
that it is occupied by an individual so employed, and there shall be substituted for
the amount of the initial allowance which would otherwise fall to be made to him
under paragraph 12 an initial allowance equal to two-fifths of the qualifying
expenditure incurred by that person on that last-mentioned building:
Provided that, where the expenditure incurred by that person on the construction
of that last-mentioned building is expenditure of a kind to which paragraph 7 or 8 is
applicable, that person may elect in a return for the basis period for a year of
assessment in which the expenditure was incurred that, in lieu of having allowances
made to him under paragraph 22 or 30 in relation to that expenditure, allowances be
made to him under this paragraph.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, in relation to a business of a person,
“employee” does not include a director, an individual having control of that business
or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff
engaged in that business.
42A. (1) Where a person carrying on a manufacturing, hotel or tourism business
or an approved service project under Schedule 7B has incurred in the basis period for
a year of assessment expenditure on the construction or purchase of a building for
the purposes of that business for the provision of living accommodation for
individuals employed by him in that business, that building shall be treated as an
industrial building for the purposes of that business at any time that it is occupied by
individuals so employed, and there shall be substituted for the amount of the
allowance which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraph 12, 16
or 42 an allowance equal to one-tenth of the qualifying expenditure for that year and
for each of the nine following years of assessment.


Income Tax 449
(2) Where a person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred in the basis
period for a year of assessment expenditure on the construction or purchase of a
building for the purposes of that business for the provision of child care facilities for
individuals employed by him in that business, that building shall be treated as an
industrial building for the purposes of that business at any time that it is used by
individuals so employed, and there shall be substituted for the amount of the
allowance which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraph 12, 16 or
42 an allowance equal to one-tenth of the qualifying expenditure for that year and
for each of the nine following years of assessment.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Schedule, for the purposes of this
paragraph the qualifying expenditure in the case of a purchased building shall be the
purchase price of that building.
(4) For the purposes of subparagraph (1), “individuals employed by him” does
not include a director, an individual having control of that business or an individual
who is a member of the management, administrative or clerical staff engaged in that
business.
42B. Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a person has for the
purposes of a business of his incurred capital expenditure on the construction or
purchase of a building for a school or an educational institution approved by the
Minister of Education or Minister of Higher Education or any relevant authority, that
building shall be treated as an industrial building for the purposes of that business
and there shall be substituted for the amount of the allowance which would otherwise
fall to be made to him under paragraph 12, 16 or 42 an allowance equal to one-tenth
of the qualifying expenditure for that year and for each of the nine following years
of assessment.
42C. Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a person has for the
purposes of a business of his incurred capital expenditure on the construction or
purchase of a building for the purposes of industrial, technical or vocational training
approved by the Minister, that building shall be treated as an industrial building for
the purposes of that business and there shall be substituted for the amount of the
allowance which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraph 12, 16 or
42 an allowance equal to one-tenth of the qualifying expenditure for that year end
for each of the nine following years of assessment.
Interpretation
43. In this Schedule “asset”, except where the context otherwise requires, means
an asset in relation to which qualifying expenditure, qualifying agriculture
expenditure or qualifying forest expenditure, as the case may be, has been incurred.
44. Any reference in this Schedule to any asset or to any relevant interest therein
shall be construed whenever necessary as including a reference to a part of any asset
or of any relevant interest therein (or, in the case of an asset or any relevant interest


therein held in undivided shares, the undivided share in the asset or in the relevant
interest therein); and, when it is so construed, the Director General shall make such
necessary apportionments as may be just and reasonable to give proper effect to this
Schedule.
45. For the purposes of this Schedule, capital expenditure incurred on—
(a) the provision of machinery or plant, includes capital expenditure
incurred on the reconstruction of that machinery or plant;
(b) the construction of a building, includes capital expenditure incurred
on the reconstruction or rebuilding of that building.
46. Where a person incurs capital expenditure under a hire purchase agreement on
the provision of any machinery or plant for the purposes of a business of his, he shall
for the purposes of this Schedule be taken to be the owner of that machinery or plant;
and the qualifying expenditure incurred by him on that machinery or plant in the
basis period for a year of assessment shall be taken to be the capital portion of any
instalment payment (or, where there is more than one such payment, of the aggregate
of those payments) made by him under the agreement in that period.
47. For the purposes of this Schedule, where an asset consists of a building the
owner thereof shall be taken to be the owner of the relevant interest in the building.
48. A building in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred is
disposed of within the meaning of this Schedule on the occurrence of any of the
following events:
(a) the sale, transfer or assignment of the relevant interest in the
building;
(b) where that interest depends on the duration of a concession, the
coming to an end of the concession;
(c) where that interest is a leasehold interest, the determination of that
relevant interest otherwise than on the person entitled thereto
acquiring the reversion;
(d) the demolition or destruction of the building,
or on the building ceasing to be used as an industrial building.
49. In this Schedule “relevant interest”, in relation to a building on which
qualifying building expenditure has been incurred, means (subject to paragraphs 50
and 51) the interest in the building to which the person who incurred that expenditure
was entitled when he incurred it.


Income Tax 451
50. Where—
(a) a person is entitled to two or more interests in a building when he
incurs qualifying expenditure on it; and
(b) one of those interests is an interest which is reversionary on all the
others,
that reversionary interest shall be the relevant interest for the purposes of this
Schedule.
51. An interest shall not cease to be the relevant interest for the purposes of this
Schedule by reason of the creation of any lease or other interest to which that first-
mentioned interest is subject; and, where the relevant interest is a leasehold interest
and is extinguished by the surrender thereof or on the person entitled thereto
acquiring the interest which is reversionary thereon, the interest into which that
leasehold interest merges shall thereupon become the relevant interest.
52. (1) An asset in relation to which qualifying agriculture expenditure has been
incurred by a person is disposed of within the meaning of this Schedule on the
occurrence of any of the following events:
(a) on the sale of the relevant interest in that asset;
(b) where the relevant interest is a leasehold interest and the lease
comes to an end, if an incoming lessee or the owner of the interest
in immediate reversion makes any payment to that first-mentioned
person;
(c) on the transfer or transmission of the asset for valuable consideration; or
(d) on the asset ceasing to be used by him for the purposes of a business
of his which consists wholly or partly of the working of a farm.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, “relevant interest” shall have the meaning
which it would have if in paragraphs 49 and 50 the reference to—
(a) a building, were to land or a building;
(b) qualifying building expenditure, were to qualifying agriculture
expenditure;
(c) the building, were to land or a building; and
(d) qualifying expenditure, were to qualifying agriculture expenditure.


53. (1) Any reference in this Schedule to the disposal, purchase, transfer or
transmission of any asset includes a reference to the disposal, purchase, transfer or
transmission, as the case may be, of that asset together with any other asset, whether
or not qualifying expenditure, qualifying agriculture expenditure or qualifying forest
expenditure, as the case may be, has been incurred on that last-mentioned asset, and
in any such case so much of the disposal value or the purchase price, as the case may
be, of those assets as, on a just apportionment, is properly attributable to the first-
mentioned asset shall, for the purposes of this Schedule, be deemed to be the disposal
value or the purchase price, as the case may be, of that first-mentioned asset.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, all the assets which are disposed of,
purchased, transferred or transmitted in pursuance of one bargain shall be deemed to
be disposed of, purchased, transferred, or transmitted, as the case may be, together,
notwithstanding that separate prices are or purport to be agreed for each of those
assets or that there are or purport to be separate disposals, purchases, transfers or
transmissions, as the case may be, of those assets.
(3) Subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph shall apply, with any necessary
modifications, to the disposal, purchase, transfer or transmission of any asset or the
relevant interest in any asset together with any other asset or relevant interest in any
other asset.
54. Where any person has incurred expenditure in relation to an asset which is
allowed to be deducted under Chapter 4 of Part III in computing the adjusted income
or adjusted loss of that person for the basis period for a year of assessment from a
business of his, that expenditure shall not be treated as qualifying expenditure or
qualifying agriculture expenditure or qualifying forest expenditure or qualifying
renovation or refurbishment expenditure in relation to that asset.
55. For the purposes of this Schedule—
(a) in the case of any expenditure incurred on the construction of a
building, the day on which that expenditure is incurred is the day on
which the construction of the building is completed and in the case
of any expenditure incurred on the provision of machinery or plant
for the purposes of a business the day on which that expenditure is
incurred is the day on which the machinery or plant is capable of
being used for the purposes of the business; and
(b) in any other case, the day on which the amount of any expenditure
becomes payable is the day on which that amount of expenditure is
incurred:
Provided that, where a person incurs expenditure for the purposes of a business of
his which he is about to carry on, that expenditure shall be deemed to be incurred
when he commences to carry on the business.


Income Tax 453
56. For the purposes of this Schedule, an asset which is temporarily disused in
relation to a business of a person shall be deemed to be in use for the purposes of the
business if it was in use for the purposes of the business immediately before
becoming disused and if during the period of disuse it is constantly maintained in
readiness to be brought back into use for those purposes.
57. If an asset which is temporarily disused in relation to a business of a person
ceases to be ready for use for the purposes of the business or if its disuse can no
longer reasonably be regarded as temporary, it shall be deemed to have ceased at the
beginning of the period of disuse to be used for the purposes of the business, and all
such assessments shall be made as may be necessary to counteract the benefit of any
allowances made to him for any year of assessment by reason of the application of
paragraph 56 in relation to the asset.
58. For the purposes of this Schedule, a building is purchased by a person on the
sale, transfer or assignment to him of a relevant interest in the building.
59. Any reference in this Schedule to the date of any sale, purchase, transfer or
transmission shall be construed as a reference to the date of completion of the sale,
purchase, transfer or transmission, as the case may be, or the date when possession
of the asset the subject matter of the sale, purchase, transfer or transmission, as the
case may be (or of the asset in which there is a relevant interest which is the subject
matter of the sale, purchase, transfer or transmission, as the case may be) is given,
whichever is the earlier.
60. Where a person who owns a building grants a lease thereof and that building is
in use as an industrial building, then, in the application of this Schedule to that person
in relation to that building any reference to a business of his shall be taken to be a
reference to the source in respect of any income to which that person is entitled under
that lease, and any reference to a basis period (in relation to any such reference to a
business) shall be taken to be a reference to the basis period in relation to that source.
61. Any plant or machinery which is used for the purposes of a business and in
respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred is disposed of within the
meaning of this Schedule if it is sold, discarded or destroyed or if it ceases to be used
for the purposes of that business.
61A. (1) Notwithstanding paragraph 48 or 61, as the case may be, but subject to
this paragraph, where in the basis period for a year of assessment an asset for which
qualifying capital expenditure has been incurred is classified as asset held for sale in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, such asset shall be
deemed to have ceased to be used for the purposes of that paragraph.
(2) Where subparagraph (1) applies and the asset is sold in the basis period the
asset is classified as asset held for sale, the disposal value of the asset for the purposes
of this Schedule shall be an amount equal to its market value at the date it was
classified as asset held for sale or the net proceeds of the sale, whichever is greater.


(3) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment an asset for which
qualifying capital expenditure has been incurred is classified as asset held for sale in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, such asset shall be
deemed to have ceased to be used for the purposes of paragraph 48 or 61, as the case
may be, in the following basis period—
(a) where the asset is sold in the following basis period; or
(b) where the asset is not sold after the end of the following basis
period.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (3), the disposal value of the asset shall be—
(a) in the case where the asset is sold in the following basis period, an
amount equal to its market value at the end of the basis period such
asset is held for sale or the net proceeds of the sale, whichever is
greater;
(b) in the case where the asset is not sold in the following basis period,
the market value of the asset at the end of that following basis
period.
(5) Where paragraph (4) applies, in determining the residual expenditure of such
asset for that following basis period, the total qualifying expenditure incurred by that
person shall be reduced by—
(a) any initial allowance made to that person in relation to that asset for
any year of assessment;
(b) any annual allowance made to that person in relation to that asset
for any year of assessment; and
(c) an amount of annual allowance which would have been made to that
person for the basis period in which the asset was classified as held
for sale as if the asset had been in use in that basis period for the
purpose of a business of his.
(6) Where an asset deemed ceased to be used in accordance with subparagraph
(3)(b) is brought into use by the person in a business of his in a basis period for any
year of assessment after the basis period the asset is deemed ceased to be used —
(a) that person shall be deemed to have incurred qualifying capital
expenditure for that asset equal to its market value at the date it is
brought into use for the purpose of that business; and
(b) no initial allowance shall be made to that person in relation to an
asset under subparagraph (a).


Income Tax 455
(7) In this paragraph, “market value” in the case of an industrial building, means
the market value as determined by a valuation officer employed by the Government.
61B. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Schedule, where any part
of an asset of a person from a business ceases to be used for purposes of a business
of his in a basis period for a year of assessment due to replacement with a new part
and that new part is depreciated separately in accordance with the generally accepted
accounting principles, that part of an asset is deemed to have been disposed of in that
basis period for that year of assessment.
(2) The qualifying expenditure of the part of the asset disposed shall be taken to
be the amount as determined in accordance with the generally accepted accounting
principles.
(3) The residual expenditure under paragraph 68 in respect of the part of the asset
disposed shall be the qualifying expenditure of the part of an asset disposed reduced
by the amount of allowance that have been made or would have been made under
this Schedule to that person prior to the disposal of that part of the asset.
(4) The provisions of this Schedule shall apply to the new part of an asset
referred to in subparagraphs (1) and (2).
62. (1) Subject to subparagraph (2), for the purposes of this Schedule, where an
asset is disposed of by a person, its disposal value shall be taken to be an amount
equal to its market value at the date of its disposal or, in the case of its disposal by
way of sale, transfer or assignment—
(a) an amount equal to its market value at the date of the sale, transfer
or assignment, as the case may be; or
(b) the net proceeds of the sale, transfer or assignment as the case may
be, whichever is the greater:
Provided that, where the asset is disposed of in such circumstances that insurance
or compensation moneys are received by that person in respect of the asset, its
disposal value shall be taken to be an amount equal to its market value at the date of
its disposal or those moneys, whichever is the greater.
(2) Where an asset of the kind to which subparagraph 2(2) applies is disposed
of, the disposal value shall be deemed to be an amount which bears the same
proportion to the disposal value ascertained under subparagraph (1) as the qualifying
plant expenditure ascertained under subparagraph 2(2) bears to the qualifying plant
expenditure ascertained under subparagraph 2(1).
(3) Where pursuant to an agreement with the Government, State Government or
a local authority in respect of a privatization project an asset used in the privatization


project is disposed of to the Government, State Government or local authority as the
case may be, its disposal value shall be taken to be an amount equal to the net
proceeds of the disposal.
(4) Notwithstanding subparagraph 62(1) where an asset in relation to which the
person has incurred qualifying plant expenditure for the purposes of a business of his
is disposed of by way of gift, its disposal value shall be deemed to be zero if the gift
is made to—
(a) a technical or vocational training institute established and
maintained by the government or a statutory body;
(b) a technical or vocational training institute as approved by the
Minister; or
(c) an approved research institute as defined in section 34B.
63. Subject to paragraphs 64 to 66, a building is an industrial building within the
meaning of this Schedule if it is used for the purposes of a business and—
(a) it is used as a factory;
(b) it is used as a dock, wharf, jetty or other similar building;
(c) it is used as a warehouse and the business consists or mainly consists
of the hire of storage space to the public;
(d) the business is that of a water or electricity undertaking supplying
water or electricity for consumption by the public or is that of a
telecommunication undertaking providing telecommunication
services to the public;
(e) it is used in connection with the working of a farm and the business
consists or mainly consists of the working of the farm, with or
without other farms; or
(f) it is used in connection with the working of a mine and the business
consists or mainly consists of the working of a mine, with or without
other mines.
64. In subparagraph 63(a) “factory” includes—
(a) a building consisting of a mill, workshop (other than a workshop
used for the repair or servicing of goods, if the repair or servicing is
carried out in conjunction with or incidentally to the business of
selling those goods) or other building for the housing of machinery
or plant of any description for the manufacture of any product or the


Income Tax 457
subjection of goods or materials to any process or the generating of
power used for the purposes of that manufacture or process; and
(b) a building (within the same curtilage as a building which is used as
a factory) used for the storage of any raw material, fuel or stores
necessary for the manufacture of that product or the processing of
those goods or materials, or for the storage of that product or those
goods or materials when processed prior to the sale thereof.
65. (1) Where a building is an industrial building, any building provided as a
canteen, rest-room, recreation room, lavatory, bathhouse, bathroom, or wash-room
for persons employed in the business for the purposes of which that industrial
building is used shall be treated as an industrial building.
(2) In the case of a farm, where a building is provided for the welfare of persons,
or as living accommodation for a person, employed in connection with the working
of a farm, then, if the building is likely to be of little or no value to any person except
in connection with the working of that farm or of another farm, that building shall be
treated as an industrial building.
(3) Subject to paragraph 67B, a building used as a dwelling house (not being for
accommodation of the kind mentioned in subparagraph (2)) or a retail shop,
showroom or office is not and shall not be treated as an industrial building.
66. Where part of a building or of an extension of a building is used as an industrial
building and the other part of the building or extension, as the case may be, is not so
used, then, if the capital expenditure incurred on the construction of the part which
is not so used is not more than one-tenth of the capital expenditure incurred on the
construction of the whole building or extension, as the case may be, the building or
extension, as the case may be, shall be treated as an industrial building for the
purposes of this Schedule; and, where the whole or some of the capital expenditure
incurred on the construction of the part not so used is not identifiable as the capital
expenditure incurred on the whole building or extension as the case may be, that last-
mentioned expenditure or the part thereof not identifiable as incurred on the
respective parts of the building or extension, as the case may be, shall be apportioned
by reference to the respective floor areas of those respective parts or in such other
manner as the Director General may direct.
67. Where capital expenditure is incurred on preparing, cutting, tunnelling or
levelling land in order to prepare a site for the installation of machinery or plant to
be used for the purposes of a business, then, if that expenditure amounts to more than
seventy-five per cent of the aggregate of that expenditure and the capital expenditure
incurred on that machinery or plant, the machinery or plant shall as regards that
aggregate expenditure be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as a building so
long as that machinery or plant is used for the purposes of that business; and that
aggregate expenditure shall be treated as the amount of the qualifying expenditure


incurred on that building, which shall be treated as disposed of if that plant or
machinery is disposed of.
67A. Where pursuant to an agreement with the Government a person incurs capital
expenditure on the construction, reconstruction, extension or improvement of any
public road and ancillary structures which expenditure is recoverable through toll
collection, the road and ancillary structures as regards such expenditure shall, for the
purposes of this Schedule, be treated as a building and the provisions of this Schedule
relating to industrial building shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to such building:
Provided that—
(a) the balance of residual expenditure under paragraph 68 of this
Schedule shall be reduced by the amount of any compensation
received; and
(b) the disposal value of the asset shall be taken to be zero when the
agreement expires or is terminated.
67B. (1) A building constructed by a person pursuant to an agreement entered
into between that person and the Government on a build-lease-transfer basis shall,
subject to the approval of the Minister, be treated as an industrial building for the
purposes of this Schedule.
(2) Where subparagraph (1) applies—
(a) the balance of residual expenditure under paragraph 68 of this
Schedule shall be reduced by the amount of any compensation
received; and
(b) the disposal value of the asset shall be taken to be zero when the
agreement expires or is terminated.
67C. (1) For the purpose of this Schedule, where—
(a) a person has incurred qualifying plant expenditure in respect of an
asset for the purposes of a business of his and in the basis period for
a year of assessment the asset is disposed of; and
(b) pursuant to any written law or agreement, that person is
subsequently required to dismantle and remove the asset and restore
the site on which the asset is located,
the residual expenditure under paragraph 68 of this Schedule shall be deemed to
include any amount incurred for dismantling and removing the asset and restoring
the site.


Income Tax 459
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph 61, in this paragraph “disposed of” means
discarded, destroyed or ceased to be used for the purposes of the business.
(3) This paragraph shall not apply if the asset which has been dismantled and
removed is subsequently used for any other business of that person or any other
person.
(4) The amount incurred in subparagraph (1) shall not include any amount paid
to a non-resident which are subject to section 109B, if tax has not been deducted
therefrom and paid to the Director General under that section:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply if the person has paid the amount
referred to in subsection 109B(2).
67D. (1) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a person has incurred
qualifying plant expenditure, qualifying building expenditure, qualifying agriculture
expenditure or qualifying forest expenditure, in relation to an asset and the input tax
on the asset is subject to any adjustment made under the Goods and Services Tax
Act 2014, the amount of such qualifying expenditure in relation to that asset shall be
adjusted in the basis period for a year of assessment in which the period of adjustment
relating to the asset as provided under the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 ends.
(2) In the event the adjustment of the amount of the qualifying expenditure made
under subparagraph (1) results in —
(a) an additional amount, such amount shall be deemed to be part of the
qualifying expenditure incurred, and the residual expenditure under
paragraph 68 in relation to the asset shall include that additional
amount; or
(b) a reduced amount, the qualifying expenditure incurred and the
residual expenditure under paragraph 68 shall be reduced by such
amount, and if the amount of the allowance made or ought to have
been made under this Schedule exceeds the residual expenditure,
the excess shall be part of the statutory income of that person from
a source consisting of a business in the basis period the adjustment
is made.
(3) The excess amount referred to in subsubparagraph (2)(b) shall not exceed the
total amount of allowances given under this Schedule.
(4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), where a person has incurred the
qualifying plant expenditure, qualifying building expenditure, qualifying agriculture
expenditure or qualifying forest expenditure in relation to an asset, and the asset is
disposed of at any time during the period of adjustment specified under the Goods
and Services Tax Act 2014, the adjustment to such qualifying expenditure shall be
made in the basis period for the year of assessment in which the disposal is made.


(5) Paragraphs 39 and 40 shall apply for the purpose of the adjustment referred
to in subparagraph (4).
68. A reference in this Schedule to residual expenditure at any date in relation to
an asset in respect of which qualifying expenditure has been incurred by a person is
to be construed as a reference to the total qualifying expenditure incurred by him on
the provision, construction or purchase of the asset before that date, reduced by—
(a) the amount of any initial allowance made to that person in relation
to that asset for any year of assessment;
(b) any annual allowance made to that person in relation to that asset
for any year of assessment before that date;
(c) any annual allowance which, if it had been claimed (or could have
been claimed, if the expenditure in respect of the asset had been
qualifying expenditure and if the asset had been in use for the
purposes of a business of his) by that person in relation to that asset,
would have been made to him for a year of assessment before that
date.
69. Any reference in this Schedule to an allowance made to a person for a year of
assessment or to an allowance to which a person is entitled under this Schedule for
a year of assessment is a reference to—
(a) an allowance which is claimed for a year of assessment and is made
or is due to be made for that year (any such allowance being treated
as having been made at the end of the basis period for the
appropriate source consisting of a business for that year); and
(b) an allowance which would have been made or to which that person
would have been entitled in relation to a source consisting of a
business of his for a year of assessment but for an insufficiency or
absence of adjusted income or the existence of an adjusted loss for
the basis period for that year.
70. In this Schedule “purchase price”, in relation to the purchase of an industrial
building, includes any legal fee, stamp duty or other incidental expenditure incurred
by the purchaser in connection with the purchase, but does not include so much of
the purchase price of the building and of any land or an interest therein purchased
with the building as is attributable to the land or that interest; and, for the purposes
of paragraph 53, the building and that land or the interest therein, as the case may be,
shall be treated as being separate assets.
70A. (1) In this Schedule, “plant” means an apparatus used by a person for carrying
on his business but does not include a building or any asset used and that functions
as a place within which a business is carried on.


Income Tax 461
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1), the Minister may prescribe any other
assets as assets which are excluded from the definition of “plant”.
Supplemental provisions
71. Where a person has incurred qualifying expenditure in relation to an asset
which is owned by that person for a period of less than two years, except by reason
of the death of that person or any other reasons as the Director General thinks
appropriate that any allowance which but for this paragraph would fall to be made to
him in relation to that asset shall not be made; and, where any such allowance has
been made, a balancing charge in an amount equal to any such allowance shall be
made on him for the year of assessment in the basis period for which the asset was
disposed of by him (being the basis period appropriate to the source consisting of the
business for the purposes of which the expenditure was incurred).
72. (Deleted by Act A226).
73. Where qualifying expenditure has been incurred by a person in relation to an
asset used for the purposes of a business of his, then, if the asset is used only partly
for the purposes of the business, any allowance to be made to that person under this
Schedule for a year of assessment in relation to the asset shall consist of so much of
what would have been the amount of the allowance claimed and due for that year if
the asset had been used in the basis period for that year wholly for the purposes of
the business, as shall be determined by the Director General having regard to all the
circumstances of the case:
Provided that in ascertaining the residual expenditure at any date in relation to the
asset regard shall be had, with respect to any allowance claimed in relation to that
asset for any year of assessment, to the full amount of that allowance which but for
this paragraph would then have been made to him for that year in relation to that
asset.
74. Where a person has a source within the meaning of sections 55 to 58, any
allowance or charge to be made to or on him for a year of assessment in relation to a
source and to an asset for a year of assessment shall be determined in such manner
as may be prescribed by rules made for the purposes of this paragraph.
75. Subject to paragraph 75A, where, by reason of an insufficiency or absence of
adjusted income of a person from a business of his for the basis period for a year of
assessment or by reason of the existence of an adjusted loss from the business for
that period, effect cannot be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or to
the aggregate amount of any allowances falling to be made to him for that year in
relation to the source consisting of that business, that allowance or that aggregate
amount, as the case may be, which has not been so made (or so much thereof as has
not been so made to him for that year) shall be deemed to be an allowance to be made
to him for the first subsequent year of assessment for the basis period for which there
is adjusted income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment


until the whole amount of the allowance or that aggregate amount to be made to him
has been made to him.
75A. Any allowance or aggregate amount of allowances for a year of assessment
which has not been so made to a company as ascertained under paragraph 75 shall
not be made to that company for the purposes of this Schedule and section 42 unless
the Director General is satisfied that the shareholders of that company on the last day
of the basis period for the year of assessment in which that allowance or that
aggregate amount has not been so made were substantially the same as the
shareholders of that company on the first day of the basis period for the year of
assessment in which that allowance or that aggregate amount would otherwise be
made to that company under this Schedule and available for the purposes of that
section and that allowance or that aggregate amount which but for this paragraph
would have been made to the company in a year of assessment shall be disregarded
for subsequent years of assessment.
75AA. Where a partnership or a company is converted into a limited liability
partnership in accordance with section 29 or 30 of the Limited Liability Partnerships
Act 2012, any allowance or aggregate amount of allowances for a year of assessment
which has not been so made to that partnership or company as ascertained under
paragraph 75 shall be made to that limited liability partnership for the purposes of
this Schedule and section 42 for the following year of assessment.
75B. (1) For the purpose of paragraph 75A—
(a) the shareholders of the company at any date shall be substantially
the same as the shareholders at any other date if on both those
dates—
(i) more than fifty per cent of the paid-up capital in respect of
the ordinary share of the company is held by or on behalf of
the same person; and
(ii) more than fifty per cent of the value of the alloted shares in
respect of ordinary share in the company is held by or on
behalf of the same person;
(b) shares in the company held by or on behalf of another company shall
be deemed to be held by the shareholders of the last-mentioned
company; and
(c) any allowance or aggregate amount of allowances which has not
been so made for any year of assessment referred to in that
paragraph shall consist of an allowance falling to be made under this
*NOTE—see section 33 of Act 644 for explanations.


Income Tax 463
Schedule for that year of assessment but shall not include any
amount of allowance deemed to have been made for that year of
assessment pursuant to paragraph 75.
(2) In this paragraph, “ordinary share” has the same meaning assigned to it under
subsection 44(5C).
75C. Where there is a substantial change in the shareholders of a company referred
to in paragraph 75A, the Minister may under special circumstances exempt that
company from the provisions of paragraph 75A.
76. A person shall not be entitled to an allowance under this Schedule for a year of
assessment unless he makes a claim for the allowance for that year in accordance
with paragraph 77.
76A. Where in a year of assessment a partnership or a company is converted into a
limited liability partnership in accordance with section 29 or 30 of the Limited
Liability Partnerships Act 2012, the limited liability partnership shall not be entitled
to an allowance under this Schedule in relation to an asset which is transferred to that
limited liability partnership for that year of assessment unless for that year of
assessment no allowance in relation to that asset has been claimed by the partners of
that partnership or that company in accordance with paragraph 77.
77. (1) Any claim by a person for an allowance under this Schedule for a year of
assessment shall be made in a written statement containing such particulars as may
be requisite to show that the claimant is entitled to the allowance and a certificate
signed by the claimant verifying those particulars.
(2) Any claim to be made by a person for a year of assessment in accordance
with this paragraph shall be furnished with a return of his income made under
section 77 or 77A for that year.
78. Where in the case of a business of a person the basis periods for two years of
assessment overlap, the period common to those periods shall be deemed for the
purposes of this Schedule to fall into the earlier of those periods and not into the later
of those periods.
79. Where as regards a business of a person the Director General has exercised the
power conferred upon him by subsection 21A(3) to direct that the basis period for a
year of assessment shall consist of a specified period, any allowance or charge to be
made on or to that person under this Schedule in relation to the source consisting of
that business for that year shall be ascertained by reference to such a period as shall
be determined by the Director General, and that last-mentioned period shall be taken
to be the basis period for that year in the application of this paragraph with this
Schedule.


80. The Minister may prescribe a building which is constructed or purchased by
any person and used by him for the purposes of his business as an industrial building
and the amount of the allowance or allowances which would otherwise fall to be
made to him under paragraph 12, 16 or 42.
81. The Minister may prescribe any capital expenditure incurred by a person in his
business as qualifying agriculture expenditure under paragraph 7 and the amount of
the allowance or allowances in respect of that qualifying agriculture expenditure
which would otherwise fall to be made to him under paragraphs 22 and 23.
SCHEDULE 4
[Sections 43 and 44]
Expenditure on Prospecting Operations
1. Qualifying prospecting expenditure for the purposes of this Schedule is
expenditure wholly and exclusively incurred in searching for, discovering or winning
access to deposits of minerals in an eligible area or in testing any such deposits, but
excludes expenditure on the acquisition of—
(a) the site of the source of the deposits;
(b) the site of any works which are likely to be of little or no value when
the source is no longer worked;
(c) rights in or over any such site; or
(d) rights in or over the deposits.
2. (a) A person who has incurred qualifying prospecting expenditure in the basis
period for a year of assessment may elect to claim in a return of his income for that
year of assessment a deduction to be made under subparagraph 5(a) (in this Schedule
that person and that year of assessment being referred to as “the prospector” and “the
relevant year” respectively).
(b) Where no election has been made under subparagraph (a), a person who has
incurred qualifying prospecting expenditure may claim for the relevant year a
deduction under subparagraph 5(b).
3. A claim under paragraph 2 shall—
(a) if an election is made, be made in writing and shall be irrevocable;


Income Tax 465
(b) specify the eligible area to which the claim relates and the amount
of the qualifying prospecting expenditure claimed to be deductible;
(c) contain a declaration described in paragraph 4 if a claim is made for
a deduction under subparagraph 5(b); and
in the case of subparagraph (b) or (c), shall contain such other information as may be
necessary to enable the Director General to dispose of the claim in accordance with
this Schedule.
4. The declaration referred to in subparagraph 3(c) is a declaration by the
prospector that—
(a) on a date before the end of the basis year for the relevant year he
permanently ceased to search for deposits of minerals in the area to
which the claim relates, to win access to any such deposits
discovered by him in that area and to test any such deposits; and
(b) he has not carried on and has formed the permanent intention not to
carry on any business consisting of or including the working of a
mine in that area.
5. Subject to this Schedule, there shall be deducted for the relevant year under
subsection 44(1)—
(a) an amount equal to so much of the qualifying prospecting
expenditure as was incurred in the basis period for the relevant year:
Provided that where the area specified in subparagraph 3(b)
ceased to be an eligible area by reason of a lease, licence or
certificate (other than a prospecting licence or certificate) granted
or issued under any written law regulating mining being granted,
issued or assigned to the prospector in any year of assessment
subsequent to the relevant year, there shall be added under
paragraph 43(1)(c) in ascertaining the prospector’s aggregate
income for that year of assessment subsequent to that relevant year
an amount equal to that prospecting expenditure or where a
prospecting expenditure has been made to him for more than one
relevant year the aggregate of all those expenditure for all those
years; or
(b) an amount equal to so much of the qualifying prospecting
expenditure as was incurred before, but not more than ten years
before, the end of the basis year for the relevant year.
6. Where—


(a) a claim under this Schedule is not allowable because the area
specified under subparagraph 3(b) is not an eligible area or is
misdescribed or because the amount of expenditure so specified is
excessive; and
(b) the Director General is of the opinion that the claim would be
wholly or partly allowable, if amendments were made affecting the
area or amount so specified,
he may make those amendments and allow the claim (in whole or in part) as
amended.
7. Subject to paragraph 8, where a claim under this Schedule in respect of any area
and expenditure has been allowed or disallowed, no other claim may be made for any
year of assessment in respect of that area or expenditure.
8. Where a claim under this Schedule in respect of any area and expenditure is
disallowed because the Director General is not satisfied as to any matter to which the
declaration described in paragraph 4 relates, a further claim in respect of that area
and expenditure may be made for a subsequent year of assessment.
9. Where a claim is made under this Schedule in respect of any area and
expenditure, the amount of any deduction which would otherwise be made under
subsection 44(1) pursuant to this Schedule for any or all relevant years shall be
reduced to the extent provided by paragraphs 10 to 13 (that amount being referred to
in those paragraphs as the provisional deduction).
10. (1) Where machinery or plant has been purchased by the prospector and used
in any operation connected with any qualifying prospecting expenditure to which the
provisional deduction relates (whether or not is was first used in that way), the
provisional deduction under subparagraph 5(a) shall be reduced—
(a) if the machinery or plant has been sold in the basis period for the
relevant year by the amount of any consideration for the sale
(ascertained in accordance with paragraph 11);
(b) by an amount equal to any sum received or receivable by the
prospector in the basis period for the relevant year for the use of the
machinery or plant otherwise than in any such operation; and
(c) if the machinery or plant has not been sold in the basis period for
the relevant year in which he permanently ceased to search for
deposits of minerals in the area to which the claim relates, to win
access to any such deposits discovered by him in that area and to
test any such deposits, by an amount equal to its market value at the
date he permanently ceased to prospect in that area.


Income Tax 467
(2) Where machinery or plant has been purchased by the prospector and used in
any operation connected with any qualifying prospecting expenditure to which the
provisional deduction relates (whether or not it was first used in that way), the
provisional deduction under subparagraph 5(b) shall be reduced—
(a) if the machinery or plant has been sold before the date referred to in
subparagraph 4(a), by the amount of any consideration for the sale
(ascertained in accordance with paragraph 11);
(b) if the machinery or plant has not been sold before that date, by an
amount equal to its market value at that date; and
(c) by an amount equal to any sum received or receivable by the
prospector before that date (and, in the case of machinery or plant
to which paragraph 14 applies, after the date on which the
machinery or plant was first used in any such operation) for the use
of the machinery or plant otherwise than in any such operation.
11. For the purposes of paragraph 10, the consideration for a sale of machinery or plant
shall be ascertained by taking the amount of any monetary consideration and the amount
of the market value of any non-monetary consideration or, where there is only non-
monetary consideration, by taking the amount of the market value of either—
(a) the non-monetary consideration; or
(b) the machinery or plant at the date of the sale,
whichever is the greater:
Provided that the consideration shall be taken to be the amount of the market value
of the plant or machinery at the time of the sale in any case where the monetary
consideration is less than the market value and the Director General is satisfied that
the sale is a transaction to which section 140 applies.
12. The provisional deduction shall be reduced—
(a) by an amount equal to any sum received or receivable by the
prospector at any time before the end of the basis year for the
relevant year or in the basis period for the relevant year, as the case
may be, from the sale of any rights or other benefits arising from or
connected with the area to which the provisional deduction relates,
and by an amount equal to the market value at the time of the sale
of any non-monetary consideration so received or receivable; and
(b) by an amount equal to any sum received or receivable by the
prospector at any time before the end of the basis year for the
relevant year or in the basis period for the relevant year, as the case


may be, as a grant or other payment by the Government, a State
Government or a statutory authority intended directly or indirectly
to reduce the burden of the qualifying prospecting expenditure to
which the provisional deduction relates.
13. Where, by reason of the fact that as regards the prospector there is for the
relevant year no or no sufficient defined aggregate, a deduction which would
otherwise be made under subsection 44(1) pursuant to this Schedule cannot be made
or can be made only in part, the deduction (or, where the deduction can be made only
in part, so much of the deduction as cannot be made) shall be made for the first year
of assessment (being a year of assessment subsequent to the relevant year) for which
in computing the total income of the prospector there is a defined aggregate, and so
on for the years of assessment subsequent to that first year until the whole amount of
the deduction has been made.
14. Where the operator uses in operations connected with qualifying prospecting
expenditure any machinery or plant acquired by him otherwise than for such a use,
the market value of the machinery or plant when first used in any of those operations
(and not its price or market value when it was first acquired by him) shall be deemed
to be included in that expenditure.
15. Where—
(a) there has been made under paragraphs 10 to 13 a reduction
consisting of an amount equal to a sum receivable (but not received)
by the prospector; and
(b) within the five years following the relevant year the prospector
satisfies the Director General that the sum in question or a part of
that sum is irrecoverable,
such adjustments in the ascertainment of the prospector’s total income for any year
of assessment shall be made as are necessary to compute the tax paid by him which
would not have been paid if there had been allowed to him the deduction which
would have been allowed if that sum or that part of that sum, as the case may be, had
not been taken into account as receivable; and a sum equal to any tax so computed
shall be repaid to the prospector by the Director General:
Provided that, where this paragraph has been applied to a part of that sum, that part
shall be left out of account in any subsequent application of this paragraph.
16. Where the prospector receives in the basis year for a year of assessment subsequent
to the relevant year which coincides with the year in which he permanently ceased to
search for, win access or test deposits of minerals in that area—
(a) an amount to which, if it had been received or receivable by him in the
basis year for the relevant year, paragraph 12 would have applied; or


Income Tax 469
(b) an amount on account or in respect of an amount treated as
irrecoverable with regard to which an adjustment has been made
under paragraph 15,
the amount so received shall be added under paragraph 43(1)(c) in ascertaining the
prospector’s aggregate income for that subsequent year:
Provided that the amount (if any) so added in ascertaining the prospector’s
aggregate income for a year of assessment by virtue of this paragraph, together with
any amount so added in ascertaining his aggregate income for any previous year of
assessment in relation to the same claim, shall not exceed the total deductions
allowed in pursuance of the claim under any of the foregoing paragraphs for the
relevant year and any subsequent year of assessment.
17. In this Schedule—
“defined aggregate”, in relation to the prospector and a year of assessment, means
his aggregate income for that year reduced by any deduction falling to be made for
that year pursuant to subsection 44(2);
“eligible area” means any particular area in Malaysia which does not consist of or
include an area with respect to which there is or has been in force at any time before
the end of the basis year for the relevant year any lease, licence or certificate (other
than a prospecting licence or certificate) granted or issued under any written law
regulating mining and granted, issued or assigned to the prospector before the end of
that basis year.
SCHEDULE 4A
[Sections 43 and 44]
(Deleted by Act 644)
SCHEDULE 4B
[Sections 43 and 44]
Qualifying Pre-Operational Business Expenditure


1. Qualifying pre-operational business expenditure for purposes of this Schedule
is expenditure within the meaning of paragraph 2, incurred by a company resident in
Malaysia in connection with a proposal by that company to undertake investment in
a business venture as approved by the Minister in a country outside Malaysia.
2. Subject to paragraph 1, qualifying pre-operational business expenditure for the
purposes of this Schedule is—
(a) expenses directly attributable to the conduct of feasibility studies;
(b) expenses directly attributable to the conduct of market research or
the obtaining of marketing information, or
(c) expenses by way of fares in respect of travel to a country outside
Malaysia by a representative of the company, being travel
necessarily undertaken for the purposes of conducting feasibility
study or market survey, and actual expenses, subject to a maximum
of four hundred ringgit per day, for accommodation and sustenance
for the whole period commencing with the representative’s
departure from Malaysia and ending with his return to Malaysia.
3. Subject to this Schedule, there shall be deducted for a year of assessment under
subsection 44(1) an amount equal to so much of the qualifying pre-operational
business expenditure as was incurred in the basis period for the year of assessment
(in this Schedule that year of assessment being referred to as “the relevant year”).
4. Where by reason of the fact that there is for the relevant year no or no sufficient
defined aggregate, a deduction which would otherwise be made under
subsection 44(1) pursuant to this Schedule cannot be made or can be made only in
part, the deduction (or, where the deduction can be made only in part, so much of the
deduction as cannot be made) shall be made for the first year of assessment (being a
year of assessment subsequent to the relevant year) for which in computing the total
income there is a defined aggregate, and so on for the years of assessment subsequent
to that first year until the whole amount of the deduction has been made.
5. In this Schedule, “defined aggregate”, in relation to a year of assessment, means
the aggregate income for that year reduced by a deduction made pursuant to
subsection 44(2) or Schedule 4.
SCHEDULE 4c
[Sections 44]
(Deleted by Act 644)


Income Tax 471
SCHEDULE 5
[Section 102]
Appeals
Hearing of appeals
1. (1) Every appeal shall be heard by three Special Commissioners, at least one
of whom shall be a person with judicial or other legal experience within the meaning
of subsection 98(3).
(2) If a Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the Special Commissioners has been
appointed and is present at the hearing of an appeal, he shall preside at the hearing.
(3) Two or more hearing of appeals may be heard concurrently at any one time.
(4) If the Chairman or Deputy Chairman has not been appointed or is not present
at the hearing of the appeals, the Special Commissioners present at the hearing of the
appeals shall choose one of their number, who shall be a person with experience of
the kind mentioned in subparagraph (1), to preside at the hearing.
1A. Notwithstanding subparagraph 1(1), if the Chairman deems it fit in the interest
of achieving expeditious and efficient conduct of the appeal, he may decide that the
appeal shall be heard by any of the following persons sitting alone—
(a) the Chairman;
(b) the Deputy Chairman; or
(c) any other Special Commissioners as the Chairman may determine.
1B. If a Special Commissioner who has commenced a hearing of an appeal is
unable to complete the hearing of the appeal due to the expiration of the term of his
appointment or other reasons—
(a) in the case where the hearing is before three Special Commissioners,
the hearing may be heard afresh or be continued by the remaining
Special Commissioners with another Special Commissioner, with
the consent of the parties; or
(b) in the case where the hearing is before a Special Commissioner
sitting alone, the hearing may be heard afresh or be continued by
another Special Commissioner, with the consent of the parties.


Place of sitting
2. The Special Commissioners shall sit for the hearing of appeals in—
(a) Ipoh;
(b) Kota Kinabalu;
(c) Kuala Lumpur;
(d) Kuching;
(e) Malacca;
(f) Penang; and
(g) such other places (if any) as they think appropriate.
3. The Special Commissioners shall draw up in advance a programme for each
half-year of the places at which and the dates on which they intend to sit and shall
conform with their programme so far as is reasonably practicable, without prejudice
to their right to make such variations in the programme as circumstances appear to
them to require.
4. (Deleted by Act A1609).
Sending forward of appeals, etc.
5. Where the Director General sends an appeal forward in pursuance of
section 102, he shall do so by forwarding to the Secretary a copy of the notice of
appeal given under section 99, together with an address for service and a request for
the appeal to be set down for hearing.
6. The notice forwarded under paragraph 5 shall constitute the petition of appeal
and the appellant’s address contained therein shall constitute the appellant’s address
for service.
7. Either party to an appeal may change his address for service by giving written
notice of the change to the Secretary and the other party.
Place and date of hearing
8. On receipt of a request under paragraph 5 for an appeal to be set down for
hearing, the Secretary shall fix a place and date of hearing which he considers
suitable and shall give the appellant and the Director General at least twenty-eight
days notice of the date and place so fixed:


Income Tax 473
Provided that, before sending an appeal forward, the Director General may make
an agreement in writing with the appellant fixing one of the places included in any
programme drawn up under paragraph 3 as the place of hearing of the appeal, and,
where he does so—
(a) he shall forward a copy of the agreement to the Secretary when he
sends the appeal forward; and
(b) the Secretary shall fix as the place of hearing the place so agreed.
9. One of the Special Commissioners on the application of a party to an appeal
may, after giving the other party an opportunity to be heard, vary any date or place
fixed under paragraph 8 and may do so, in the case of a place so fixed,
notwithstanding that the appeal has been partly heard in that place.
Appeals may be heard together
10. One of the Special Commissioners may order—
(a) two or more appeals by the same person; or
(b) two or more appeals by different persons, if they agree,
to be heard together.
11. One of the Special Commissioners may make an order under
subparagraph 10(a) either of his own motion or on the application of a party to one
of the appeals in question, but no such order shall be made until the parties to those
appeals have been given an opportunity to be heard.
Scope of argument
12. At the hearing of an appeal the appellant may rely on grounds of appeal other
than those stated in the petition of appeal and may vary any ground of appeal so
stated:
Provided that, where he does so without giving reasonable notice to the Director
General, the Special Commissioners shall adjourn the hearing for a reasonable period
if requested to do so by the Director General.
Onus of proof
13. The onus of proving that an assessment against which an appeal is made is
excessive or erroneous shall be on the appellant.


Representation and attendance
14. For the purposes of an appeal—
(a) the Director General may be represented by an authorized officer, a
legal officer or an advocate;
(b) the appellant may be represented by an advocate or a tax agent or
by bot an advocate and a tax agent; and
(c) if the appellant is the principal within the meaning of section 67, he
may be represented by the representative within the meaning of that
section.
15. In paragraph 14—
“legal officer” means a legally qualified public officer entitled under the law in
force in any part of Malaysia to represent the Government in civil proceedings by or
against the Government.
16. The Director General and the appellant may—
(a) attend at the time and place fixed for the hearing of the appeal; and
(b) do any other thing or take any other action in connection with the
appeal,
either personally or by a representative of the kind referred to in paragraph 14.
16A. Where both parties to an appeal attend, either personally or by a representative
of the kind referred to in paragraph 14, at the time and place fixed for the hearing of
the appeal, the Special Commissioners may on the application of either or both of
the parties grant a postponement of the hearing on such terms as they consider
reasonable, including terms as to the costs of the postponement to the Special
Commissioners and to the party not applying for postponement, against the party or
parties (as the case may be) applying for the postponement.
17. (1) Where a party to an appeal fails to attend, either personally or by a
representative of the kind referred to in paragraph 14, at the time and place fixed for
the hearing of the appeal, the Special Commissioners—
(a) if they are then and there satisfied that the defaulting party is
prevented from attending by sickness or other reasonable cause,
shall postpone the hearing for what appears to them to be an
appropriate time, or they may hear and decide the appeal in the
absence of the defaulting party if he requests them to do so;


Income Tax 475
(b) if they are not so satisfied, may hear and decide the appeal in the
absence of the defaulting party, or may dismiss the appeal if the
defaulting party is the appellant, or may postpone the hearing for
what appears to them to be an appropriate time.
(2) Where both parties to an appeal fail to attend, either personally or by a
representative of the kind referred to in paragraph 14, at the time and place fixed for
the hearing of the appeal—
(a) if each of the parties fails to satisfy the Special Commissioners that
he is prevented from attending by sickness or other reasonable
cause, they may either decide or dismiss the appeal in the absence
of both parties or postpone the hearing for what appears to them to
be an appropriate time, and where they postpone the hearing they
may order either or both parties to pay to them such costs as they
consider reasonable;
(b) if the Special Commissioners are then and there satisfied that one of
the parties is prevented from attending by sickness or other
reasonable cause and are not satisfied that the other party is so
prevented, they shall postpone the hearing for what appears to them
to be an appropriate time, or they may decide the appeal in the
absence of the parties if the party so prevented requests them to do
so;
(c) if the Special Commissioners are satisfied that both parties are
prevented from attending by sickness or other reasonable cause,
they shall postpone the hearing for what appears to them to be an
appropriate time, or they may decide the appeal in the absence of
the parties if the parties request them to do so.
18. Where, after a deciding order has been made under paragraph 17 as the result
of a party’s failure to attend at the time and place fixed for the hearing of an appeal,
the Special Commissioners are satisfied on an application made within a period of
thirty days after the making of the order that the defaulting party was prevented from
attending by sickness or other reasonable cause, they may set aside the order and fix
a time and place for a fresh hearing of the appeal.
Powers of Special Commissioners
19. The Special Commissioners shall have—
(a) power to summon to attend at the hearing of an appeal any person
who in their opinion is or might be able to give evidence respecting
the appeal;


(b) power, where a person is so summoned, to examine him as a witness
on oath or otherwise;
(c) power, where a person is so summoned, to require him to produce
any books, papers or documents which are in his custody or under
his control and which the Special Commissioners may consider
necessary for the purposes of the appeal;
(d) power, where a person is so summoned, to allow him any reasonable
expenses incurred by him in connection with his attendance;
(e) all the powers of a subordinate court with regard to the enforcement
of attendance of witnesses, hearing evidence on oath and
punishment for contempt;
(f) subject to subsection 142(5), power to admit or reject any evidence
adduced, whether oral or documentary and whether admissible or
inadmissible under the provisions of any written law for the time
being in force relating to the admissibility of evidence; and
(g) power to postpone or adjourn the hearing of an appeal from time to
time (including power to adjourn to consider their decision).
Witnesses bound to tell truth, etc.
20. Every person examined as a witness by or before the Special Commissioners,
whether on oath or otherwise, shall be legally bound to state the truth and if
summoned under subparagraph 19(a) to produce such books, papers or documents
in his custody or under his control as the Special Commissioners may require under
subparagraph 19(c).
Witnesses’ expenses
21. (1) Expenses allowed under subparagraph 19(d) shall be assessed by the
Secretary on the scale used in civil proceedings in a subordinate court and shall be
paid by the appellant or the Government as the Special Commissioners may direct.
(2) In a case where section 67 applies, the Special Commissioners may direct
that expenses assessed under subparagraph (1) shall be paid by the representative
(within the meaning of that section); and, where they so direct, subsections (4)
to (7) of that section shall apply as if those expenses were tax due from the
representative.


Income Tax 477
Procedure
22. Subject to this Act and any rules made under paragraph 154(1)(d), the Special
Commissioners may regulate the procedure at the hearing of an appeal and their own
procedure.
Deciding orders
23. As soon as may be after completing the hearing of an appeal, the Special
Commissioners shall give their decision on the appeal in the form of an order which
shall be known as a deciding order and which, subject to this Schedule, shall be final.
23A. For the purpose of paragraph 23, “deciding order” includes an order where the
Special Commissioners dismiss an appeal under paragraph 17.
24. A deciding order may, if the Special Commissioners think fit, be read or
summarized in the presence of the parties by one of the Special Commissioners or
the Secretary; but the fact that any deciding order is not so read or summarized shall
not affect its validity and the fact that any deciding order is so read or summarized
shall not relieve the Secretary of his obligation under paragraph 44 to cause a copy
of the order to be served on the parties.
25. If the Special Commissioners differ among themselves as to the decision to be
given on an appeal—
(a) the opinion of the majority shall prevail; and
(b) the Special Commissioner who dissents from the majority view
shall sign the deciding order as required by paragraph 44 (unless he
is incapacitated from doing so as mentioned in that paragraph), but
in doing so shall indicate the fact of his dissent and may, if he thinks
fit, add a statement of his reasons therefor.
26. Subject to paragraphs 25 and 31, a deciding order shall either confirm or
discharge the assessment to which the appeal relates or shall direct the Director
General to amend the assessment; and, where it directs amendment, the order shall—
(a) specify the appropriate amendments;
(b) require the appropriate amendments to be determined by agreement
between the parties or, failing agreement, by the Special
Commissioners; or
(c) specify some of the appropriate amendments and require the others
to be so determined.


27. Where a deciding order is made pursuant to subparagraph 26(b) or (c) in respect
of an appeal, section 101 shall apply as if references to the order were substituted for
references to the notice of appeal under subsection 99(1) (any agreement come to
pursuant to the order being deemed to be and to have the same effect as an agreement
of the kind mentioned in subsection 101(2)) and section 102 shall apply as it applies
on a failure to come to an agreement of that kind:
Provided that—
(a) if a notice of appeal is filed under paragraph 34 in respect of the
order, section 102 shall not come into operation until all proceedings
respecting the case have been completed; and
(b) if the Director General has cause to send the appeal forward to the
Special Commissioners pursuant to section 102, he shall do so by
sending to the Secretary and the appellant a written statement that
a further hearing has become necessary by reason of the parties’
failure to agree.
28. Where an appeal is set down for further hearing pursuant to paragraph 27, it
shall not be necessary for the further hearing to take place before the same Special
Commissioners as those who heard the earlier proceedings.
Vexatious and frivolous appeals
29. (1) Where on an appeal the Special Commissioners do not discharge or
amend an assessment, they may, if in their opinion the appeal was vexatious or
frivolous, order the appellant to pay as costs to the Special Commissioners a sum not
exceeding five thousand ringgit.
(2) In a case where section 67 applies, the Special Commissioners may order the
representative (within the meaning of that section) to pay costs under
subparagraph (1); and, where they do so, subsections (4) to (7) of that section shall
apply as if those costs were tax due from the representative.
30. Subject to any representation made under paragraph 31 a sum ordered to be
paid under paragraph 29 shall become due and payable on the expiration of a period
of seven days starting on the date when the order for payment was served on the
appellant or the representative (within the meaning of section 67), as the case may
be, and shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Government.
31. (1) The Special Commissioners may make an order as to costs under
paragraph 29 notwithstanding that the appellant was not present at the hearing of the
appeal.
(2) Where the Special Commissioners make an order as to costs under
paragraph 29—


Income Tax 479
(a) it shall be included in the deciding order made under paragraph 26;
and
(b) the appellant or the representative (within the meaning of
section 67) may within twenty-one days of the service on him of the
deciding order make representation orally or in writing to the
Special Commissioners showing cause why the order as to costs
ought not to have been made or why the costs ordered ought to be
reduced, and the Special Commissioners if satisfied with the
representation may remit the costs ordered either wholly or partly.
Costs and fees
32. Except as expressly provided in this Schedule, the Special Commissioners shall
not make any order as to the payment of the costs of an appeal.
32A. (1) Except as provided in paragraph 30, any sum ordered to be paid by the
Special Commissioners as costs shall become due and payable on the order for
payment being made and shall be recoverable—
(a) in the case of costs ordered to be paid to the appellant, as a debt due
to him; and
(b) in the case of costs ordered to be paid to the Special Commissioners
or the Director General, as a debt due to the Government.
(2) In any proceedings for the recovery of costs ordered by the Special
Commissioners the production of a certificate signed by one of the Special
Commissioners giving the names and addresses of the persons to whom and by
whom such costs are to be paid and the amount of the costs due shall be sufficient
evidence of the amount so due and sufficient authority for the court to give judgment
for that amount.
33. (Deleted by Act A108).
Appeals to the High Court
34. (1) Either party to the proceedings before the Special Commissioners may
appeal to the High Court on a question of law against a deciding order made in those
proceedings.
(2) An appeal under subparagraph (1) shall be by way of a notice in writing filed
with the Secretary within twenty-one days from the date of the decision of the Special
Commissioners.


(3) A copy of the notice of appeal shall be extended to the Registry of the High
Court within the time limited for the filing of an appeal as specified under
subparagraph (2).
(4) A duplicate copy of the notice of appeal must be served by the appellant on
every other party to the proceedings within the time limited for the filing of an appeal
as specified under subparagraph (2).
(5) The appellant shall, within the time limited for the filing of an appeal as
specified under subparagraph (2), apply to the Secretary in writing for the notes of
proceedings and the grounds of decision.
(6) The appellant shall pay to the Secretary at the time of the filing of the notice
of appeal such fee as may be prescribed by the Minister in respect of each deciding
order against which he seeks to appeal.
(7) The High Court may, on the application of an intending appellant made by a
notice of application, extend the period to file a notice of appeal.
34A. (1) The appellant shall, within sixty days from the date of the filing of the
notice of appeal, prepare and file to the High Court a record of appeal in a number
of copies as may be required by the Court.
(2) The record of appeal shall contain—
(a) a duplicate copy of the notice of appeal;
(b) the statement of facts and issues;
(c) the memorandum of appeal;
(d) the deciding order of the Special Commissioners;
(e) the notes of proceedings, when available;
(f) the grounds of decision, when available;
(g) a duplicate copy of the notice of cross appeal, if any; and
(h) all such documentary exhibits and other documents the parties
consider relevant for the purposes of the appeal.
(3) The record of appeal under subparagraph (2) shall be filed notwithstanding
that the notes of proceedings or grounds of decision are not ready within the sixty
days period mentioned in subparagraph (1).


Income Tax 481
(4) When the notes of proceedings or grounds of decision become available,
they shall be filed by way of a supplementary record of appeal without leave of the
High Court.
34B. (1) The memorandum of appeal shall set forth consecutively, concisely and
under distinct heads without any argument or narrative, the grounds of objection to
the decision appealed against and the points of law which are alleged to have been
wrongly decided.
(2) Where a supplementary record of appeal is filed pursuant to
subparagraph 34A(4), the appellant may include in the supplementary record of
appeal an amended memorandum of appeal without leave of the High Court.
34C. (1) A draft index of the documents to be included in the record of appeal
shall be sent by the appellant to the respondent who may, within forty-eight hours,
object to the inclusion or exclusion of any documents.
(2) In the event the parties are unable to agree on the documents to be included
in the record of appeal, the matter shall be referred to the Registrar of the High Court
who may require the parties to attend before a Judge of the High Court.
(3) The Registrar of the High Court and the parties shall endeavour to exclude
from the record of appeal all documents that are not necessary or not relevant to the
subject matter of the appeal.
(4) Where in the course of the preparation of the record of appeal one party
objects to the inclusion of a document on the ground that it is unnecessary or
irrelevant and the other party nevertheless insists on it being included, the record as
finally printed or typed shall, with a view to the subsequent adjustment of the costs
of and incidental to such documents, indicate in the index of papers or otherwise, the
fact that, and the party by whom, the inclusion of the document was objected to.
(5) The appellant shall serve a copy of the record of appeal to the respondent
within the time limited for the filing of a record of appeal within the sixty days period
mentioned in subparagraph 34A(1).
35. (Deleted by Act A1609).
36. (Deleted by Act A1609).
37. (Deleted by Act A1609).
37A. The appellant shall pay to the Secretary the cost for the notes of proceedings or
other documents at such rate as may be prescribed by the Minister.
38. (Deleted by Act A1609).


39. The High Court shall hear and determine any question of law arising on an
appeal under paragraph 34 and may in accordance with its determination thereof—
(a) order the assessment to which the appeal relates to be confirmed,
discharged or amended;
(b) remit the appeal to the Special Commissioners with the opinion of
the court thereon; or
(c) make such other order as it thinks just and appropriate.
40. (Deleted by Act A1609).
41. There shall be such rights of appeal from decisions of the High Court on an
appeal under paragraph 34 as exist in respect of decisions of the High Court on
questions of law in its appellate civil jurisdiction.
42. Unless it is otherwise provided by rules of court, the rules of court for the time
being in force in relation to appeals in civil matters from a subordinate court to the
High Court and from the High Court in its appellate jurisdiction to the Court of
Appeal and the Federal Court shall, subject to this Schedule, apply with the necessary
modifications to appeals under this Schedule to the High Court, the Court of Appeal
and the Federal Court respectively.
Supplemental provisions
42A. Where any matter of procedure or practice is not provided for in this Schedule,
the procedure and practice for the time being in force or in use in the subordinate
court or in the High Court, as the case may be, shall be adopted and followed with
the necessary modifications.
43. (1) Proceedings under this Schedule before the Special Commissioners or the
court shall take place in camera:
Provided that where the Director General applies to the Special Commissioners or
the court, as the case may be, that the proceedings, or such part thereof as he may
deem necessary, be heard by way of a hearing open to the public, the Special
Commissioners or the court, as the case may be, shall direct that the proceedings or
the part thereof, as the case may be, shall be so heard, notwithstanding any objection
from any other party to the proceedings:
Provided further that, where in the opinion of the Special Commissioners or the
court any proceedings or part thereof heard in camera ought to be reported, the
Special Commissioners or the court, as the case may be, may publish or authorize
publication of the facts of the case, the arguments and the decision relating to the


Income Tax 483
proceedings or the part thereof heard in camera, but without identifying the parties
(other than the Director General) where the whole proceedings were heard in camera.
(2) Any publication authorized under subparagraph (1) may be obtained from
the Special Commissioners or the court on payment of such fee as may be prescribed
from time to time by the Minister.
44. Where a deciding order or any other order is made by the Special
Commissioners or one of the Special Commissioners in or in connection with
proceedings under this Schedule—
(a) the order shall be dated and signed by the Special Commissioners
or Special Commissioner making it; and
(b) a copy of the order shall be served by the Secretary on the parties
to the proceedings:
Provided that, if any of the Special Commissioners who have made a deciding
order are incapacitated from signing by reason of death, illness, absence or any other
cause, the order shall be signed by such of them as are able to do so.
45. Directions for the settlement or disposal of any matter of a procedural nature
arising in connection with proceedings before the Special Commissioners, the High
Court, the Court of Appeal or the Federal Court under this Schedule may, if no other
provision is made by or under this Act or rules of court for the settlement or disposal
of the matter, be given—
(a) in relation to proceedings before the Special Commissioners, by one
of the Special Commissioners on an application made in whatever
manner he considers appropriate; and
(b) in relation to proceedings before the High Court, the Court of
Appeal or the Federal Court, by the High Court on an application
made by notice of application.
46. The Special Commissioners in the exercise of their functions shall enjoy the
same judicial immunity as is enjoyed by the person presiding in a subordinate court.
47. In sections 193 and 228 of the Penal Code the words “judicial proceeding” shall
be deemed to include an appeal.
48. In this Schedule—
“appeal”, except in paragraphs 34 to 42, means an appeal to the Special
Commissioners under section 99;
“deciding order” means a deciding order made under paragraph 23;


“subordinate court” means a sessions court or the court of a magistrate of the first
class;
“High Court”, in relation to an appeal heard by the Special Commissioners, means
(unless the parties to the appeal agree otherwise in writing) the High Court having
jurisdiction in the place where the appeal begins to be heard by the Special
Commissioners.
SCHEDULE 6
[Section 127]
Exemption from tax
PART I
INCOME WHICH IS EXEMPT
1. The official emoluments of a Ruler or Ruling Chief as defined in section 76.
1A. The official emoluments of the Consort of a Ruler of a State having the title of
Raja Perempuan, Sultanah, Tengku Ampuan, Raja Permaisuri, Tengku Permaisuri,
or Permaisuri:
Provided that where there are two or more consorts of a Ruler of a State having
the above titles, the exemption shall be given only to the one recognized to be the
official Consort.
1B. The official income of a former Ruler or Ruling Chief as defined in section 76
(excluding a former Governor or Yang di-Pertua Negara of a State) or a Consort of
a former Ruler of a State previously having the title of Raja Perempuan, Sultanah,
Tengku Ampuan, Raja Permaisuri, Tengku Permaisuri, or Permaisuri.
2. The official emoluments received by any person in respect of the exercise by
him of the functions of a State Authority in a temporary or acting capacity.
3. Any income which is exempt by virtue of the Diplomatic Privileges (Vienna
Convention) Act 1966 [Act 24 of 1966], or by virtue of an order made under Part III
of the Diplomatic and Consular Privileges Ordinance 1957 [Ord. 53 of 1957] or
under the Foreign Representatives (Privileges and Immunities) Act 1967 [Act 541].
NOTE—This Ordinance has been repealed by Act A1064 w.e.f. 03-09-1999.


Income Tax 485
4. The official emoluments of consular officers and consular employees (as defined
in the Diplomatic and Consular Privileges Ordinance 1957) in the service of a
country to which Part IV of that Ordinance applies, to the extent provided by any
consular convention between Malaysia and that country or, in the absence of a
consular convention, to the extent that reciprocal treatment is accorded by that
country to persons exercising corresponding functions in the service of Malaysia.
5. The income of the Government or a State Government.
6. The income of a local authority.
7. Wound and disability pensions granted to persons in respect of—
(a) service in the armed forces of Malaysia or a Commonwealth
country;
(b) service on and after Merdeka Day in the armed forces;
(c) service before Merdeka Day in the Malay Regiment, the Federation
Regiment, the Johore Military Forces, any volunteer force or local
defence corps within the meaning of the Volunteer Forces and Local
Defence Corps (Demobilization) Ordinance 1946 [Ord. 16 of 1946],
or any force raised or established by or under the Malayan Auxiliary
Air Force Ordinance 1950 [Ord. 1 of 1950], the Volunteer Force
Ordinance 1951 [Ord. 5 of 1951], the Malayan Royal Naval
Volunteer Reserve Ordinance 1952 [Ord. 3 of 1952], or the Military
Forces Ordinance 1952 [Ord. 47 of 1952]; or
(d) service in the Sarawak Volunteer Force or the Sarawak Rangers,
and pensions granted to wives or dependant relatives of members of any of those
forces or local defence corps killed on war service.
8. Disability pensions granted in respect of war service injuries to members of civil
defence organizations in any territory comprised in Malaysia on 1 January 1968.
9. Sums payable out of moneys provided by Parliament by way of bounty to
members of any of the following reserve forces, that is to say—
(a) Royal Malaysian Naval Volunteer Reserve;
(b) Malaysian Territorial Army;
(c) Royal Malaysian Air Force Volunteer Reserve.


10. The emoluments of any person who is a member of the armed forces of a
Commonwealth country or in the service of the government of a Commonwealth
country, if—
(a) he is in Malaysia for the purpose of performing his duties as a
member of those forces or as a person in that service, as the case
may be; and
(b) those emoluments are payable from the public funds of that country
and subject to foreign tax of that country.
11. (Deleted by Act 328).
12. (1) The income of any co-operative society—
(a) in respect of a period of five years commencing from the date of
registration of such co-operative society; and
(b) thereafter where the members’ funds of such co-operative society
as at the first day of the basis period for the year of assessment is
less than seven hundred and fifty thousand ringgit.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph “members’ funds” means the aggregate of
the paid up capital (in respect of shares and subscriptions and not including any
amount in respect of bonus shares to the extent they were issued out of capital reserve
created by revaluation of fixed assets) statutory reserve fund, reserves (other than
any capital reserve which was created by revaluation of fixed assets and provisions
for depreciation, renewals or replacements and diminution in value of assets),
balance of share premium account (not including any amount credited therein at the
instance of issuing bonus shares at premium out of capital reserve created by
revaluation of fixed assets), and balance of profit and loss appropriation account.
12A. Any dividend paid, credited or distributed to any member by a co-operative
society.
12B. Any dividend paid, credited or distributed to any person where the company
paying such dividend is not entitled to deduct tax under this Act and any deductions
in relation to such dividend shall be disregarded for the purpose of ascertaining the
chargeable income of the person.
12C. Any profit paid, credited or distributed to partners by a limited liability
partnership.
13. (1) The income of—
(a) an institution, organization or fund approved for the purposes of
subsection 44(6) so long as the approval remains in force;


Income Tax 487
(b) a religious institution or organization in respect of any contribution
received for charitable purposes in the basis year for a year of
assessment provided such institution or organization is not operated
or conducted primarily for profit and is established in Malaysia
exclusively for the purpose of religious worship or the advancement
of religion; or
(c) an appropriate religious authority or a body or a public university
approved for the purposes of subsection 44(11D) in respect of any
wakaf or endowment received including the income derived
therefrom in the basis period for a year of assessment, so long as the
approval remains in force.
14. Sums received by way of death gratuities or as consolidated compensation for
death or injuries.
15. (1) A payment (other than a payment by a controlled company to a director
of the company who is not a whole-time service director) made by an employer to
an employee of his as compensation for loss of employment or in consideration of
any covenant entered into by the employee restricting his right to take up other
employment of the same or a similar kind—
(a) if the Director General is satisfied that the payment is made on
account of loss of employment due to ill-health; or
(b) in the case of a payment made in connection with a period of
employment with the same employer or with companies in the same
group, in respect of so much of the payments as does not exceed an
amount ascertained by multiplying the sum of ten thousand ringgit
by the number of completed years of service with that employer or
those companies:
Provided that—
(a) this subsubparagraph shall apply to the payment made in
respect of an individual who has ceased employment on or
after 1 July 2008; and
(b) a further sum of ten thousand ringgit is allowed to be
multiplied by the number of completed years of service in
respect of an individual who has ceased employment on or
after 1 January 2020 but not later than 31 December 2021.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph the Director General may direct that a
period of employment in a business with different employers where the control and
management of that business substantially remains with the same person or persons


or where the employment is with different employers whose businesses are
conducted by or through a central agency shall be treated as a period of employment
with the same employer.
(3) In this paragraph, “compensation for loss of employment” shall include any
payment made by an employer to an employee of his pursuant to a separation scheme
where employees are given an option for an early termination of an employment
contract provided that such scheme from which payment was made does not
expressly or impliedly provide for the employee to be reemployed under any other
scheme of employment by the same or any other employer.
16. Pensions granted to any person under any written law relating to widows’,
widowers’ and orphans’ pensions (or under any approved scheme within the meaning
of any such law) and pensions paid under an approved scheme to or for the benefit
of the widow, widower, child or children of a deceased contributor to the scheme.
17. The income of a trade union registered under any written law relating to trade
unions, in so far as the income does not consist of the gains or profits from a
business carried on by the union.
18. (Deleted by Act 785).
19. Interest paid or credited to any person in respect of any savings certificates
issued by the Government.
20. The income of any approved scheme.
20A. Any income of a life insurer or takaful operator from an investment made out
of a life fund or family fund in respect of a deferred annuity established in accordance
with the Retirement Savings Standards approved by the Central Bank of Malaysia
and any adjusted loss from the investment in respect of the deferred annuity shall be
disregarded for the purposes of the Act.
21. Subject to paragraph 22, the income of an individual from an employment
exercised by him in Malaysia—
(a) for a period or periods which together do not exceed sixty days in
the basis year for a year of assessment; or
(b) for a continuous period (not exceeding sixty days) which overlaps
the basis years for two successive years of assessment); or
(c) for a continuous period (not exceeding sixty days) which overlaps
the basis years for two successive years of assessment and for a
period or periods which together with that continuous period do not
exceed sixty days,


Income Tax 489
if he is not resident for that basis year or for each of those basis years, as the case
may be.
22. Paragraph 21 shall not apply to the income of an individual from an
employment—
(a) if that individual has income derived from Malaysia from that
employment for a period or periods amounting in all to more than
sixty days in the basis year referred to in that paragraph or in the
period consisting of the basis years so referred to; or
(b) if the income is income from an employment exercised by a public
entertainer and no part of that income is paid out of the public funds
of the government of a country outside Malaysia.
23. Education allowances paid to designated officers under the Overseas Service
(North Borneo) Agreement 1961, or the Overseas Service (Sarawak)
Agreement 1961.
24. Any sums paid by way or in the nature of a scholarship or other similar grant
or allowance to an individual, whether or not in connection with an employment of
that individual.
25. (1) Sums received by way of gratuity on retirement from an employment—
(a) if the Director General is satisfied that the retirement was due to
ill-health;
(b) if the retirement takes place on or after reaching the age of 55, or on
reaching the compulsory age of retirement from employment
specified under any written law and in either case from an
employment which has lasted ten years with the same employer or
with companies in the same group; or
(c) if the retirement takes place on reaching the compulsory age of
retirement pursuant to a contract of employment or collective
agreement at the age of 50 but before 55 and that employment has
lasted for ten years with the same employer or with companies in
the same group.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph the Director General may direct that a
period of employment in a business with different employers where the control and
management of that business substantially remains with the same person or persons
or where the employment is with different employers whose businesses are
conducted by or through a central agency shall be treated as a period of employment
with the same employer.


25A. Sum received by way of gratuity or by way of payment in lieu of leave paid
out of public funds on retirement from an employment under any written law.
25B. Sums received by way of gratuity paid out of public funds on termination of
a contract of employment (less the employer’s contribution to the Employees
Provident Fund, if any, and interest thereon).
25C. Perquisite consisting of long service, past achievement, service excellence,
innovation or productivity award, whether in money or otherwise, provided to an
employee pursuant to his employment, limited to a maximum amount or value of
two thousand ringgit for each employee for a year of assessment provided that
exemption in respect of long service award shall apply only after the employee has
exercised an employment for more than ten years with the same employer.
25D. Sums received by way of gratuity on retirement from an employment under
any written law or termination of a contract of employment other than when
paragraph 25, 25A, 25B or 30A applies:
Provided that the sums shall not exceed an amount ascertained by multiplying the
sum of one thousand ringgit by the number of completed year of service of that
individual.
26. The income of—
(a) any national amateur sports organization certified by the President
and Secretary of the Olympic Council of Malaysia to be affiliated
to that Council during the basis year for any year of assessment; and
(b) any State amateur sports organization certified by the President (or
corresponding officer) and Secretary of an organization to which
paragraph (a) applies to be affiliated to that organization during the
basis year for any year of assessment,
being in each case income for that year of assessment.
27. (Deleted by Act 785).
28. The income arising from sources outside Malaysia and received in Malaysia by
any person who is not resident in Malaysia.
29. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 44(6), the aggregate income of
any person remaining after the reductions made pursuant to paragraphs 44(1)(a), (b)
and (c) to the extent of the amount of any contribution made by him during the basis
period for a year of assessment to the National Monument Restoration Fund
established for the purpose of restoring the National Monument in Kuala Lumpur.


Income Tax 491
30. Pensions derived from Malaysia and paid to a person on reaching the age of 55,
or on reaching the compulsory age of retirement from employment specified under
any written law or if the Director General is satisfied that the retirement was due to
ill-health—
(a) in respect of services rendered in exercising a former employment
in Malaysia; and
(b) where the pension is paid other than under any written law, from a
pension or provident fund, scheme or society which is an approved
scheme.
Provided that where a person is paid more than one pension, this paragraph shall
apply to the higher or the highest pension paid, as the case may be.
30A. Gratuity or pension derived from Malaysia and paid to a person resident for
the basis year for a year of assessment under any written law applicable to the
President or Deputy President of the Senate, Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the House
of Representatives, Speaker of the State Legislative Assembly, member of the
Senate, member of the House of Representatives or member of the State Legislative
Assembly:
Provided that—
(a) the exemption in respect of pension shall apply only when the
person has attained the age of fifty-five or if the Director General is
satisfied that such person ceased to be President, Deputy President,
Speaker, Deputy Speaker or member due to ill-health; and
(b) where such person is eligible for exemption in respect of pension
under this paragraph and also under paragraph 30 of this Schedule,
exemption shall be applicable only to the higher or the highest
pension payable, as the case may be.
31. (Deleted by Act 323).
32. Income of ten thousand ringgit for the basis year for a year of assessment
derived by an individual resident in Malaysia for that basis year from royalty or
payment in respect of the publication of, or the use of or the right to use, any artistic
work (other than any original painting), and from royalty in respect of recording discs
or tapes.
32A. Income of twelve thousand ringgit for the basis year for a year of assessment,
derived by an individual resident in Malaysia, being payment received in that year in
respect of any translation of books or literary work at the specific request of any
agency of the Ministry of Education or Ministry of Higher Education or the Attorney
General’s Chambers:


Provided that the exemption shall not apply where the payment arises to the
individual as part of his emoluments in the exercise of his official duties.
32B. Income of twenty thousand ringgit for the basis year for a year of assessment
derived by an individual resident in Malaysia for that basis year from royalty (other
than royalty in respect of recording discs or tapes) or payment in respect of the
publication of, or the use of or the right to use, any literary work or any original
painting.
32C. Income of an individual resident in Malaysia in that basis year in respect of
his performances in cultural performances approved by the Minister:
Provided that the exemption shall not apply where the payment arises to the
individual as part of his emoluments in the exercise of his official duties.
32D. Income of twenty thousand ringgit for the basis year for a year of assessment,
derived by an individual resident in Malaysia, being payment in respect of any
musical composition:
Provided that the exemption shall not apply where the payment arises to the
individual as part of his emoluments in the exercise of his official duties.
32E. Income of an individual for the basis year for a year of assessment being
payment by way of fee or honorarium in respect of services provided for purposes of
validation, moderation or accreditation of franchised educational programmes in
higher educational institutions and the services are verified by the Lembaga
Akreditasi Negara:
Provided that the exemption shall not apply where the payment arises to the
individual as part of his emoluments in the exercise of his official duties.
33. Income of any person not resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment, in respect of interest derived from Malaysia (other than such interest
accruing to a place of business in Malaysia of such person) and paid or credited by
any person (whether the same person or not) carrying on banking business or Islamic
banking business in Malaysia and licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013 or
the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013, as the case may be, or by any other
institution approved by the Minister:
Provided that the exemption under this paragraph shall not apply to interest paid
or credited on funds required for purposes of maintaining networking funds as
prescribed by the Minister pursuant to section 12 of the Financial Services Act 2013
and section 12 of the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013, as the case may be.
33A. (1) Interest paid or credited to any company not resident in Malaysia, other
than such interest accruing to a place of business in Malaysia of such company—


Income Tax 493
(a) in respect of securities issued by the Government; or
(b) in respect of sukuk or debenture issued in Ringgit Malaysia, other
than convertible loan stock, approved or authorized by, or lodged
with, the Securities Commission.
(2) The exemption under subparagraph (1) shall not apply to—
(a) interest paid or credited to a company in the same group; or
(b) interest paid or credited by a special purpose vehicle to a company
pursuant to the issuance of asset-backed securities lodged with the
Securities Commission Malaysia from 1 January 2022 where the
company and the person who established the special purpose
vehicle solely for the issuance of the asset-backed securities are in
the same group.
33B. (1) Interest paid or credited to any person in respect of sukuk originating
from Malaysia, other than convertible loan stock–
(a) issued in any currency other than Ringgit; and
(b) approved or authorized by, or lodged with, the Securities
Commission, or approved by the Labuan Financial Services
Authority.
(2) The exemption under subparagraph (1) shall not apply to—
(a) interest paid or credited to a company in the same group;
(b) interest paid or credited to—
(i) a bank licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013;
(ii) an Islamic bank licensed under the Islamic Financial
Services Act 2013; or
(iii) a development financial institution prescribed under the
Development Financial Institutions Act 2002; or
(c) interest paid or credited by a special purpose vehicle to a company
pursuant to the issuance of asset-backed securities lodged with the
Securities Commission Malaysia or approved by the Labuan
Financial Services Authority from 1 January 2022 where the
company and the person who established the special purpose
vehicle solely for the issuance of the asset-backed securities are in
the same group.


34. (1) Income of an individual derived from exercising an employment on board
a ship used in a business operated by a person being a registered owner of a ship
under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1952 who is resident in Malaysia.
(2) For the purpose of this paragraph “ship” means a seagoing ship other than a
ferry, barge, tug-boat, supply vessel, crew boat, lighter, dredger, fishing boat or other
similar vessel.
34A. Interest paid or credited to any individual in respect of Merdeka Bonds issued
by the Central Bank of Malaysia.
35. Interest or discount paid or credited to any individual, unit trust and listed
closed-end fund—
(a) in respect of securities or bonds issued or guaranteed by the
Government; or
(b) in respect of debentures, or sukuk other than convertible loan stock,
approved or authorized by, or lodged with, the Securities Commission;
or
(c) (Deleted by Act 624);
(d) in respect of Bon Simpanan Malaysia issued by the Central Bank of
Malaysia.
35A. Income of a unit trust in respect of interest derived from Malaysia and paid or
credited by—
(a) a bank licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013;
(b) an Islamic bank licensed under the Islamic Financial Services Act
2013; or
(c) a development financial institution prescribed under the
Development Financial Institutions Act 2002:
Provided that the exemption shall not apply to the interest paid or credited to a unit
trust that is a wholesale fund which is a money market fund.
36. Sums received by way of annuities granted under annuity contracts issued by
Malaysian life insurers.
For the purposes of this paragraph “Malaysian life insurers” means life insurers
and takaful operators whose ownership or membership are held in majority by
Malaysian citizens.


Income Tax 495
37. In this Schedule, “special purpose vehicle” means a company incorporated
under the Companies Act 2016 or a company incorporated under the Labuan
Companies Act 1990 [Act 441] which has made an election under section 3A of the
Labuan Business Activity Tax Act 1990 and established solely for the purpose of
issuance of sukuk or debenture for asset-backed securities in a securitization
transaction lodged with the Securities Commission Malaysia or approved by the
Labuan Financial Services Authority.
PART II
(Deleted by Act 328)
SCHEDULE 7
[Sections 132 and 133]
Double Taxation Relief
Bilateral credit
1. Subject to this Schedule, the amount of Malaysian tax payable for a year of
assessment shall be reduced by the amount of any bilateral credit.
2. Bilateral credit shall not be allowed against Malaysian tax for any year of
assessment unless the person chargeable to the Malaysian tax is resident for the basis
year for that year of assessment.
3. Where foreign income charged to foreign tax is income for a period which
overlaps the basis period for a year of assessment, that income shall be apportioned
in the manner provided by paragraph 3A and for that year of assessment bilateral
credit may be given only in respect of so much of that income as is apportioned to
the part of the overlapping period which overlaps the basis period.
3A. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 3, where a foreign income is receivable in
respect of a period which overlaps the basis period (which is referred to in this
paragraph as the overlapping period), that foreign income when received shall be
apportioned between the part of the overlapping period which overlaps the basis
period and the remaining part of the overlapping period.
(2) The apportionment under subparagraph (1) shall be made in the proportion
that the number of days of the overlapping period that fall into the basis period bears


to the total number of days of the overlapping period, unless the Director General,
having regard to the facts of any particular case, otherwise directs.
(3) So much of that foreign income as is apportioned to the overlapping part of
the overlapping period shall be treated as foreign income of the person for the basis
period.
4. Where foreign income (being income for a particular period) is charged to
Malaysian tax for more than one year of assessment or is charged to foreign tax more
than once, bilateral credit may be allowed for a year of assessment for the total
amount of foreign tax charged on that foreign income:
Provided that—
(a) the credit so allowed should not exceed the total amount of
Malaysian tax charged on that foreign income; and
(b) where credit has been allowed for a year of assessment for any
foreign tax, no credit shall be given for the same tax for any other
year of assessment.
5. The bilateral credit to be allowed to a person in respect of any foreign income
for a year of assessment shall not exceed a sum equal to so much of the Malaysian
tax payable by him for that year (before the allowance of any credit under this
Schedule) as bears to the whole of that Malaysian tax the same proportion as his
statutory income in respect of that foreign income bears to his total income for that
year.
6. Notwithstanding paragraph 5, the total bilateral credit to be allowed to a person
for a year of assessment shall not exceed the total Malaysian tax payable by him on
his chargeable income for that year before the allowance of any credit under this
Schedule.
7. Bilateral credit shall not be allowed against Malaysian tax payable by a person
for a year of assessment if he elects that credit shall not be allowed for that year.
8. (Deleted by Act 591).
9. Any claim for bilateral credit for a year of assessment shall be made in
writing to the Director General not more than two years after the end of that
year; and, where the claimant is aggrieved by the Director General’s decision
on the claim, subsection 131(5) shall apply (with any necessary modifications)
as it applies where an applicant is aggrieved by the Director General’s decision
on an application under subsection 131(1).
10. Where the amount of any bilateral credit given is rendered excessive or
insufficient by reason of any adjustment of the amount of any Malaysian tax or
foreign tax, nothing in this Act limiting the time for making assessments, for making


Income Tax 497
applications for relief or for giving notice of appeal shall apply to any assessment,
application for relief or notice of appeal to which the adjustment gives rise, being an
assessment, application or notice made or given not more than two years after the
time when all such assessments, adjustments and other determinations have been
made (in Malaysia or elsewhere) as are material in determining whether any and if
so what bilateral credit falls to be given.
Special provisions for trusts
11. Where the trust body of a trust is resident for the basis year for a year of
assessment and the total income of the trust body includes foreign income which has
suffered foreign tax, every beneficiary of the trust who is resident for that basis year
shall be deemed for the purposes of this Schedule—
(a) to have a part of that foreign income proportionately equal to the
share of the total income of the trust body to which he is entitled;
and
(b) to have paid on that part of that foreign income a part of that foreign
tax proportionately equal to that share of the total income of the trust
body.
12. Where a trust is not resident for the basis year of a year of assessment, any
beneficiary of the trust (including an annuitant) who is resident for that basis year
shall, if he satisfies the Director General that—
(a) he has paid or suffered foreign tax on his income from his further
source (within the meaning of subsection 61(5)) in relation to the
trust body or on so much of the annuity as is derived from outside
Malaysia; or
(b) any income from such further source or any annuity so derived was
paid by the trust body from income which had suffered foreign tax,
be allowed bilateral credit in respect of that foreign tax in accordance with this
Schedule.
Unilateral credit
13. Subject to paragraphs 14 and 15, unilateral credit shall be allowed in the same
way as bilateral credit, and paragraphs 1 to 12 shall apply accordingly.
14. The unilateral credit allowed in respect of any foreign income for a year of
assessment shall not exceed half the foreign tax payable on that income for that year.
15. Where an employee pays Malaysian tax and foreign tax in respect of income
from an employment exercised outside Malaysia, then, whether or not he was


resident for the basis year for the year of assessment for which the Malaysian tax was
paid, unilateral credit may be allowed for foreign tax.
Interpretation
16. In this Schedule—
“bilateral credit” means credit in respect of foreign tax which, by virtue of any
arrangements having effect under section 132, is to be allowed as a credit against
Malaysian tax;
“foreign income” means income derived from outside Malaysia or in the case of
bilateral credit, includes income derived from Malaysia charged to foreign tax;
“Malaysian tax” means tax imposed by this Act;
“unilateral credit” means credit in respect of foreign tax payable under the laws of
a territory outside Malaysia with respect to which no arrangements under section 132
are in force.
SCHEDULE 7A
[Section 133A]
Reinvestment Allowance
1. Subject to this Schedule, where a company which is resident in Malaysia—
(a) has been in operation for not less than thirty- six months; and
(b) has incurred in the basis period for a year of assessment capital
expenditure on a factory, plant or machinery used in Malaysia for
the purposes of a qualifying project referred to under subparagraph
8(a);
(c) (Deleted by Act 591),
there shall be given to the company for that year of assessment a reinvestment
allowance of an amount equal to sixty per cent of that expenditure:
Provided that such expenditure shall not include capital expenditure incurred on
plant or machinery which is provided wholly or partly for the use of a director, or an
individual who is a member of the management, or administrative or clerical staff.


Income Tax 499
1A. Subject to this Schedule, where a company which has been in operation for not
less than thirty-six months and is resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment has incurred in the basis period for that year of assessment, capital
expenditure in relation to an agricultural project in Malaysia for the purposes of any
qualifying project referred to under subparagraph 8(c) there shall be given to the
company for that year of assessment a reinvestment allowance of sixty per cent of
that expenditure.
1B. (1) Where a company has incurred capital expenditure in respect of an asset
for the purposes of a qualifying project and that asset is acquired by a person (in this
paragraph referred to as “the acquirer”) from that company or from any other person
(in this paragraph referred to as “the disposer”) and at the time of the acquisition—
(a) the disposer of the asset is a person over whom the acquirer of the
asset has control;
(b) the acquirer of the asset is a person over whom the disposer of the
asset has control;
(c) some other person has control directly or indirectly over the
disposer and acquirer of the asset; or
(d) the acquisition is effected in consequence of a scheme of
reconstruction or amalgamation of companies,
this Schedule shall not apply to the acquirer in respect of the asset.
(2) In this paragraph—
“asset” means a factory, plant or machinery referred to in paragraph 1, or plant,
machinery or building referred to in the definition of “capital expenditure” in
paragraph 9;
“control”, in relation to a company, means the power of a person to secure, by
means of the holding of shares or the possession of voting power in or in relation to
that or any other company, or by virtue of any powers conferred by the articles of
association or other document regulating that or any other company, that the affairs
of the first mentioned company are conducted in accordance with the wishes of that
person.
1C. (Deleted by Act 755).
1D. (1) For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 1A, the capital expenditure incurred
by a company shall not include any amount paid or to be paid in respect of goods
and services tax as input tax by a company if the company is liable to be registered
under the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 and has failed to do so, or if the company
is entitled under that Act to credit that amount as input tax.


(2) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a company has incurred
capital expenditure under this Schedule in relation to an asset and the input tax on
the asset is subject to any adjustment made under the
Goods and Services Tax Act 2014, the amount of such expenditure in relation to that
asset shall be adjusted in the basis period for a year of assessment in which the period
of adjustment relating to the asset as provided under the
Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 ends.
(3) In the event the adjustment of the amount of the capital expenditure made
under subparagraph (2) results in —
(a) an additional amount, such amount shall be deemed to be part of the
capital expenditure incurred, and subject to paragraphs 1 and 1A,
there shall be given to the company for a year of assessment an
allowance in respect of such additional amount; or
(b) a reduced amount, any amount of allowance that ought not to have
been given under this Schedule in consequence of such reduction
shall be part of the statutory income of that person from a source
consisting of a business in the basis period the adjustment is made.
(4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (2), where a person has incurred the capital
expenditure in relation to an asset, and the asset is disposed of at any time during the
period of adjustment specified under the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014, the
adjustment to such expenditure shall be made in the basis period for the year of
assessment in which the disposal is made.
(5) Paragraph 1B shall apply for the purpose of the adjustment referred to in
subparagraph (4).
2. An allowance under paragraph 1 or 1A shall be given in respect of capital
expenditure incurred in the basis periods for fifteen consecutive years of assessment
beginning from the year of assessment for the basis period in which a claim for that
allowance was first made in the return of his income in respect of that capital
expenditure.
2A. (1) Where an asset is disposed of at any time within five years from the date
of acquisition of that asset, an allowance given under paragraph 1 or 1A in respect of
that asset shall be deemed to have not been given to the person to which it would
otherwise be entitled.
(2) The allowance which is deemed to have not been given under
subparagraph (1) shall be part of the person’s statutory income in the basis period for
the year of assessment in which such asset is disposed of.
2B. Subject to this Schedule and notwithstanding paragraph 2, where a company
has first made a claim for an allowance under this Schedule in the return of its income


Income Tax 501
and the period for fifteen consecutive years of assessment referred to in
paragraph 2—
(a) ended in the year of assessment 2019 or in any other preceding year
of assessment, an allowance under paragraph 1 or 1A shall be given
in respect of capital expenditure incurred by the company in the
basis period for the years of assessment 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 and
2024;
(b) ends in the year of assessment 2020, an allowance under paragraph
1 or 1A shall be given in respect of capital expenditure incurred by
the company in the basis period for the years of assessment 2021,
2022, 2023 and 2024;
(c) ends in the year of assessment 2021, an allowance under paragraph
1 or 1A shall be given in respect of capital expenditure incurred by
the company in the basis period for the years of assessment 2022,
2023 and 2024; or
(d) ends in the year of assessment 2022, an allowance under paragraph
1 or 1A shall be given in respect of capital expenditure incurred by
the company in the basis period for the years of assessment 2023
and 2024; or
(e) ends in the year of assessment 2023, an allowance under paragraph
1 or 1A shall be given in respect of capital expenditure incurred by
the company in the basis period for the year of assessment 2024.
3. Where an allowance is given to a person under paragraph 1 or 1A for a year of
assessment, so much of the statutory income of that business of that person for that
year of assessment as is equal to the amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate
amount of any such allowances as the case may be) but not exceeding seventy per
cent of the statutory income shall be exempt from tax for that year of assessment:
Provided that where the qualifying project has achieved the level of productivity
as prescribed by the Minister, the amount to be exempt shall be equal to the
allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowances as the case may be)
but not exceeding the statutory income for that year of assessment.
4. Where, by reason of the restriction of the allowance to seventy per cent of the
statutory income or of an insufficiency or absence of statutory income from a
business of the person for the basis period for a year of assessment, effect cannot be
given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or allowances to which the person
is entitled under this Schedule for that year of assessment in relation to the source
consisting of that business, so much of the allowance or allowances as cannot be
given for that year shall be given to the person under this Schedule for the first


subsequent year of assessment for the basis period for which there is statutory income
from that business, and for subsequent years of assessment.
4A. Statutory income referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be construed as the
amount of statutory income of a person from a source consisting of a business in
respect of a qualifying project referred to in paragraph 8.
*4B. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, so much of the allowance or allowances as
cannot be given as ascertained under that paragraph at the end of the fifteen
consecutive years of assessment referred to in paragraph 2 or 2B (in this paragraph
referred to as “the first mentioned year of assessment”), shall only be given to that
person in accordance with paragraph 4 for a period of seven consecutive years of
assessment (in this paragraph referred to as “that period”) and that period commences
immediately after the end of the first mentioned year of assessment, and any amount
of that allowance or that allowances at the end of that period which cannot be given
to that person, by reason of insufficiency or absence of statutory income from a
business of his for that period, shall be disregarded for the purpose of this Schedule.
4C. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, so much of the allowance or allowances as
cannot be given to a person as ascertained under that paragraph which relates to
capital expenditure incurred after the end of the period of fifteen consecutive years
of assessment referred to in paragraph 2B until the year of assessment 2024—
(a) shall only be given to that person in accordance with paragraph 4
for a period of seven consecutive years of assessment and that
period commences immediately following the year of assessment
2024; and
(b) any amount of the allowance or aggregate amount of the allowance
at the end of that period which has not been given to that person, by
reason of insufficiency or absence of statutory income from his
business for that period, shall be disregarded for the purposes of this
Schedule.
5. (1) In the case of a company as soon as any amount of income has become
exempted under paragraph 3, that amount shall be credited to an account to be kept
by that company for the purposes of this paragraph (that account and company being
in this paragraph and paragraph 6 referred to as the exempt account and the relevant
company respectively).
(2) Where the exempt account is in credit at the date on which any dividends are
paid by the relevant company out of income which has been exempted under
paragraph 3, an amount equal to those dividends or that credit, whichever is the less,
shall be debited to the exempt account.
*NOTE— See section 28 of Act 812 for explanation.


Income Tax 503
(3) So much of the amount of any dividends debited to the exempt account under
subparagraph (2) as is received by a shareholder in the relevant company shall, if the
Director General is satisfied with the entries in the exempt account, be exempt from
tax in the hands of that shareholder.
(4) Any dividends debited to the exempt account under subparagraph (2) shall
be treated as having been distributed to the shareholders (or any particular class of
shareholders) of the relevant company in the same proportions as those in which the
shareholders in question were entitled to payment of the dividends giving rise to the
debit.
(5) Until the Director General is satisfied that there is no further need to maintain
the exempt account, the relevant company shall deliver to the Director General a
copy of the exempt account made up to a date specified by him whenever it is called
upon to do so by notice in writing sent by the Director General to the company’s
registered office.
(6) Where—
(a) an amount is received by way of dividend from the relevant
company by a shareholder;
(b) that amount is exempt from tax under subparagraph (3); and
(c) that shareholder is a company,
any dividends paid by that shareholding company to its shareholders shall, to the
extent that the Director General is satisfied that the dividends so paid are paid out of
that amount, be exempt from tax in the hands of those shareholders.
(7) (Deleted by Act 683).
6. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Schedule, where paragraph 2A
applies or where it appears to the Director General that any income of the relevant
company exempted under paragraph 3 or any dividend exempted in the hands of a
shareholder under paragraph 5 ought not to have been exempted, he may at any time
within five years after the expiration of the year of assessment for which the
exemption was given make such assessment or additional assessment upon any
person as appears to him to be necessary in order to counteract any benefit obtained
from the exemption, or direct the relevant company to debit the exempt account with
such amount as the circumstances require.
6A. Where in the case of a business of a person the basis periods for two years of
assessment overlap, the period common to those periods shall be deemed for the
purposes of this Schedule to fall into the earlier of those periods and not into the later
of those periods.


7. This Schedule shall not apply to a company—
(a) for the basis period during which the company—
(i) has been granted pioneer status under the Promotion of
Investments Act 1986 in respect of a promoted activity or
promoted product and which is applying or intends to apply
for the grant of a pioneer certificate; or
(ii) has been granted pioneer certificate under the Promotion of
Investments Act 1986 in respect of a promoted activity or
promoted product and whose tax relief period has not ended
or ceased;
(b) for the basis period for which the company has been granted
approval for investment tax allowance under the Promotion of
Investments Act 1986 in respect of a promoted activity or promoted
product for the period prescribed under the relevant provisions of
that Act;
(c) (Deleted by Act 578);
(d) for the basis period during which that company, notwithstanding the
repeal of the Investment Incentives Act 1968—
(i) has been given approval under section 5, 12A or 12B of that
Act and whose tax relief period has not ended; or
(ii) has been given approval under section 26 of that Act and
incurs capital expenditure which qualifies for investment tax
credit; or
(e) for the basis period for which the company has been granted
approval under section 31C of the Promotion of Investments Act
1986 prior to the coming into operation of section 37 of the
Promotion of Investments (Amendment) Act 2007 [Act A1318] in
respect of a manufacturing activity or manufactured product for the
period prescribed under paragraph 31E(2)(b) of that Act.
(f) (Deleted by Act 683).
8. In this Schedule, “qualifying project” means—
(a) a project undertaken by a company, in expanding, modernizing or
automating its existing business in respect of manufacturing of a
product or any related product within the same industry or in


Income Tax 505
diversifying its existing business into any related product within the
same industry;
(b) (Deleted by Act 693);
(c) an agricultural project undertaken by a company in expanding,
modernizing or diversifying its cultivation and farming business
excluding the business of rearing chicken and ducks; or
(d) (Deleted by Act 755).
9. In this Schedule—
“automating” refers to a process whereby manual operations are substituted by
mechanical operations with minimal or reduced human intervention;
“capital expenditure”, in relation to an agricultural project referred to in
paragraphs 1A and 1C, means capital expenditure incurred in respect of—
(a) the clearing and preparation of land;
(b) the planting of crops;
(c) the provision of irrigation or drainage systems;
(d) the provision of plant and machinery;
(e) the construction of access roads including bridges;
(f) the construction or purchase of buildings (including those provided
for the welfare of persons or as living accommodation for persons)
and structural improvements on land or other structures; or
(g) (Deleted by Act 755),
for the purposes of any of the following activities:
(aa) cultivation of rice and maize;
(bb) cultivation of vegetables, tuber and roots;
(cc) cultivation of fruits;
(dd) livestock farming;
(ee) spawning, breeding or culturing of aquatic products;
(ff) any other activities approved by the Minister; and


(gg) (Deleted by Act 755);
“ceased to be used” in relation to an asset includes an asset classified as held for
sale under paragraph 61A of Schedule 3;
“disposed of” means sold, conveyed, transferred, assigned, ceased to be used or
alienated with or without consideration;
“diversifying” means to enlarge or vary the range of product of a company related
to the same industry;
“expanding” refers to an increase of a product capacity or expansion of factory
area;
“factory” means portion of the floor areas of a building or an extension of a
building used for the purposes of qualifying project to place or install plant or
machinery or to store any raw material, or goods or materials manufactured prior to
sale:
Provided that in respect of portion of the building or extension of the building used
for the storage of raw material, or goods or materials, or both, it shall not be more
than one-tenth of the total floor areas of that building or extension;
“incurred” has the same meaning assigned thereto in paragraphs 46 and 55 of
Schedule 3;
“manufacturing” means—
(a) conversion by manual or mechanical means of organic or inorganic
materials into a new product by changing the composition, nature
or quality of such materials;
(b) assembly of parts into a piece of machinery or products; or
(c) mixing of materials by a chemical reaction process including
biochemical process that changes the structure of a molecule by the
breaking of the intra molecular bonds or by altering the spatial
arrangement of atom in the molecule,
but does not include—
(aa) the installation of machinery or equipment for the purpose of
construction;
(bb) a simple packaging operations such as bottling, placing in boxes,
bags and cases;


Income Tax 507
(cc) a simple fixing;
(dd) a simple mixing of any products;
(ee) a simple assembly of parts;
(ff) any activity to ensure the preservation of products in good condition
during transportation and storage;
(gg) any activity to facilitate shipment and transportation;
(hh) any activity of packaging or presenting goods for sale; or
(ii) any activity that may be prescribed by the Minister, notwithstanding
the above interpretation;
“machinery” means a device or apparatus consisting of fixed and moving parts that
work together to perform function in respect of a manufacturing activity, which is
directly used in carrying out that activity in a factory;
“modernizing” means an upgrading of manufacturing equipment and process;
“operation” means an activity which consists of the carrying on of a business
referred to in paragraph 8;
“plant” means an apparatus used in respect of a manufacturing activity, which is
directly used in carrying out that activity in a factory;
“simple” generally describes an activity which does not need special skills, special
machines, special apparatus or special equipments especially produced or installed
for carrying out that activity.
10. Except for paragraphs 1 and 5, this Schedule shall also apply to an agro-based
co-operative society (within the meaning assigned to it under the Farmers’
Organization Act 1973 [Act 109]), an Area Farmers’ Association, a National
Farmers’ Association, a State Farmers’ Association (within the meanings assigned
to them under the Farmers’ Organization Act 1973), an Area Fishermen’s
Association, a National Fishermen’s Association and a State Fishermen’s
Association (within the meanings assigned to them under the Fishermen’s
Association Act 1971 [Act 44]).
11. For the purpose of paragraph 1C, where—
(a) a company or a partnership (hereinafter referred to in this
subparagraph as “new partnership”) commences to carry on a
business of rearing chicken and ducks; and


(b) that business is a continuation of a business carried out by a sole
proprietor or a partnership (hereinafter referred to in this
subparagraph as “old partnership”) for a period of not less than
thirty-six months prior to that commencement,
that period, in relation to that company and the new partnership, shall be taken into
account in ascertaining the period of not less than thirty-six months referred to in that
paragraph:
Provided that the sole proprietor or any of the partners in the old partnership holds any
share in that company or is the partner of the new partnership, as the case may be.
12. Where a person has a source within the meaning of sections 55 to 58, the rules
prescribed under paragraph 74 of Schedule 3 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, in
ascertaining the allowance to be made to that person for a year of assessment under
this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 7B
[Section 133A]
Investment Allowance for Service Sector
1. Where a company which is resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a year of
assessment has incurred in the basis period for that year of assessment capital
expenditure for the purpose of an approved service project, there shall be given to
the company for that year of assessment an investment allowance of an amount
approved by the Minister, such allowance being not less than sixty per cent of that
expenditure.
1A. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 1, the capital expenditure incurred by a
company shall not include any amount paid or to be paid in respect of goods and
services tax as input tax by a company if the company is liable to be registered under
the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 and has failed to do so, or if the company is
entitled under that Act to credit that amount as input tax.
(2) Where in the basis period for a year of assessment a company has incurred
capital expenditure under this Schedule in relation to an asset and the input tax on
the asset is subject to any adjustment made under the Goods and Services Tax
Act 2014, the amount of such expenditure in relation to that asset shall be adjusted
in the basis period for the year of assessment in which the period of adjustment
relating to the asset as provided under the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014 ends.


Income Tax 509
(3) In the event the adjustment of the amount of the capital expenditure made
under subparagraph (2) results in—
(a) an additional amount, such amount shall be deemed to be part of the
capital expenditure incurred, and subject to paragraph 1, there shall
be given to the company for a year of assessment an allowance in
respect of such additional amount; or
(b) a reduced amount, any amount of allowance that ought not to have
been given under this Schedule in consequence of such reduction
shall be part of the statutory income of that person from a source
consisting of a business in the basis period the adjustment is made.
(4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (2), where a person has incurred capital
expenditure in relation to an asset, and the asset is disposed of at any time during the
period of adjustment specified under the Goods and Services Tax Act 2014, the
adjustment to such expenditure shall be made in the basis period for a year of
assessment in which the disposal is made.
2. The Minister may grant approval in respect of an application made in writing
for an investment allowance under this Schedule on such terms and conditions as he
deems fit.
3. An allowance for expenditure given under paragraph 1 shall be given in respect
of expenditure incurred within five years from the date from which the approval is
to take effect.
4. Where an allowance is given to a company under paragraph 1 for a year of
assessment, so much of the statutory income of the business of the company in
respect of an approved service project for that year of assessment as is equal to the
amount of the allowance (or to the aggregate amount of any such allowance, as the
case may be) shall be exempt from tax and the amount so exempt shall not exceed
seventy per cent (or any other rate as the Minister may determine) of the statutory
income of that business of the company for that year of assessment.
5. Where, by reason of an absence or insufficiency of statutory income of a
company from a business for the basis period for a year of assessment, effect cannot
be given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or allowances to which the
company is entitled to under this Schedule for that year in relation to the source
consisting of that business, then, notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs, so much
of the allowance or allowances in question as cannot be given for that year shall be
deemed to be an allowance to be given to the company under this Schedule for the
first subsequent year of assessment for the basis period for which there is statutory
income from that business, and so on for subsequent years of assessment.


*5A. Notwithstanding paragraph 5, so much of the allowance or allowances as
cannot be given as ascertained under that paragraph for the year of assessment that
relates to the basis period where the five-year period specified in paragraph 3 ends
(in this paragraph referred to as “the first mentioned year of assessment”), shall only
be given to that person in accordance with paragraph 5 for a period of seven
consecutive years of assessment (in this paragraph referred to as “that period”) and
that period commences immediately after the end of the first mentioned year of
assessment, and any amount of that allowance or those allowances at the end of that
period which cannot be given to that person, by reason of insufficiency or absence
of statutory income from a business of his for that period, shall be disregarded for
the purpose of this Schedule.
6. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule 7A shall apply as if any reference in those
paragraphs to any income exempted or which has become exempted under paragraph
3 of that Schedule were a reference to income credited to the exempt account under
paragraph 4.
7. This Schedule shall not apply to a company for the period during which the
company has been granted exemption under section 127.
8. For the purposes of this Schedule any expenditure incurred in relation to an
approved service project prior to the commencement of the business, shall be deemed
to be incurred on the day when the business commences.
9. For the purposes of this Schedule—
“approved service project” means a project in the service sector in relation to
transportation, communications, utilities or any other sub-sector as approved by the
Minister;
“capital expenditure”, in relation to approved service project, means capital
expenditure incurred on plant, machinery, fixtures, premises, buildings, structures or
works of a permanent nature and shall not include capital expenditure incurred on
buildings, plant or machinery which are provided wholly or partly for the use of a
director or an individual who is a member of the management, administrative or
clerical staff;
“incurred” has the same meaning assigned to it in paragraphs 46 and 55 of
Schedule 3.
*NOTE— See section 30 of Act 812 for explanation.


Income Tax 511
SCHEDULE 8
[Section 155]
Repeals
No. and year Short title Extent of repeal
29 of 1956 Income Tax Ordinance 1956 of The whole
Sabah
13 of 1960 Inland Revenue Ordinance 1960 of The whole
Sarawak
M.U. 48 of 1947 Income Tax Ordinance 1947 The whole
F.M. 62 of 1950 Housing Trust Ordinance 1950 The words “and
income tax” and “or
income tax” in
subsection 35 (1) and
the words “Income
Tax” in the marginal
note to section 35
F.M. 36 of 1954 Petaling Jaya Ordinance 1954 The words “and
income tax” and “or
income tax” in section
29 and the words “and
income tax” in the
marginal note to that
section
F.M. 20 of 1956 Land Development Ordinance 1956 The words “and
income tax” and “or
income tax” in
subsection 63 (1)
F.M. 61 of 1958 Central Bank of Malaysia Ordinance The words “from the
1958 provisions of any law
relating to income
taxation or company
taxation, and” in
section 50 and the
words “taxation and”
in the marginal note to
that section
F.M. 10 of 1961 Racing (Totalizator Board) Act 1961 Subsection 19(2)
F.M. 25 of 1962 Sarawak Electricity Supply Section 32
Corporation 1962


SCHEDULE 9
[Section 156]
Transitional and Saving Provisions
PART I
General
Interpretation
1. (1) In this Schedule—
“pre-basis period”, in relation to a pre-year of assessment, means the period which
would have been the basis period for that year if that year had been a year of
assessment in relation to which this Act has effect by virtue of subsection 1(3);
“pre-basis year”, in relation to a pre-year of assessment, means the calendar year
immediately preceding that pre-year of assessment;
“previous tax” means any tax imposed by a repealed law;
“pre-year of assessment” means a calendar year preceding the year of
assessment 1968;
“repealed laws” means the Sabah Ordinance, the Sarawak Ordinance and the West
Malaysian Ordinance, and “repealed law” means any of those Ordinances;
“Sabah Ordinance” means the Income Tax Ordinance 1956, of Sabah;
“Sarawak Ordinance” means the Inland Revenue Ordinance 1960, of Sarawak;
“West Malaysian Ordinance” means the Income Tax Ordinance 1947, of West
Malaysia.
(2) In the marginal note to any paragraph of this Schedule—
(a) a reference to any specific Part, section or Schedule is a reference
to the Part or section of this Act, or Schedule to this Act, to which
that paragraph relates; and
(b) a reference to a specific Schedule followed by a colon and a number
or numbers is a reference to the paragraph or paragraphs of that
Schedule bearing that number or those numbers.


Income Tax 513
(3) This Part of this Schedule shall be subject in its operation to Parts II, III
and IV thereof.
Power to make further transitional or saving provisions
2. (1) The Minister at any time may by statutory order make such further
transitional or saving provisions as he considers necessary or expedient (including
provisions amending any of the paragraphs of this Schedule except this paragraph).
(2) Any order made under subparagraph (1) shall be laid before the Dewan Rakyat.
Repealed laws saved for certain purposes
3. (1) Subject to subparagraph (2) and the other provisions of this Schedule, each
of the repealed laws shall remain in force for all purposes in relation to the year of
assessment 1967 under the law in question and to previous years of assessment under
that law.
(2) Any function of a public officer under a repealed law may for the purposes
of subparagraph (1) be exercised by any public officer referred to in section 134
whose office substantially corresponds to that of an officer by whom the function
was exercisable under that law or by any public officer so referred to who is
designated in that behalf by the Director General.
(3) Subsections 136(2) to (5) shall not apply to the exercise of the Director
General’s functions under subparagraph (2).
References to repealed law
4. Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference in a written law to any
provision of a repealed law shall be construed in relation to the year of
assessment 1968 and subsequent years of assessment as a reference to the
corresponding provision (if any) of this Act.
References to Malaysia before 1968
5. Subject to any express provision of this Act, references in this Act to Malaysia
shall be construed, in relation to any time before 1 January 1968, as references to the
territories comprised in Malaysia on that date or any one or more of those territories.


Section 7
6. References in section 7 to years of assessment preceding a particular year of
assessment and to the basis years for those preceding years include references to pre-
years of assessment and pre-basis years respectively.
Section 8
7. Where a company or body of person falls to be treated as resident in Sabah,
Sarawak or Peninsular Malaysia under the appropriate repealed law for a year of
assessment under that law coinciding with the calendar year 1966 or 1967, then, for
the purposes of subsection 8(2)—
(a) if the calendar year in question is 1966, it shall be presumed until
the contrary is proved that the company or body was resident in
Malaysia for the purposes of this Act for the basis years for the year
of assessment 1968 and every subsequent year of assessment;
(b) if the calendar year in question is 1967, it shall be taken to have been
established as between the Director General and the company or
body that the company or body was resident in Malaysia for the
basis year for the year of assessment 1968.
Section 10
8. References in section 10 to years of assessment preceding a particular year of
assessment and to the basis years for those preceding years including references to
pre-years of assessment and pre-basis years respectively.
Section 13
9. In subsections 13(2) and (3) “period” includes a period which elapsed or began
before 1 January 1968.
Section 21
10. (1) In subsections 21(2) and (3) “financial year” and “accounting period”
include, in relation to the year of assessment 1968, a financial year or accounting
period, as the case may be, beginning before 1 January 1967.
(2) Where under subsection 28(2) of the Sabah Ordinance, subsection 25(2) of
the Sarawak Ordinance or subsection 31(2) of the West Malaysian Ordinance a
direction has been given (or purports to have been given) with respect to the years of


Income Tax 515
assessment 1967 and 1968 under the Ordinance in question, the period which the
direction indicates (or purports to indicate) with respect to the year of assessment
1968 under that Ordinance shall be taken to be the basis period for the year of
assessment 1968 under this Act unless the Director General having regard to the
circumstances of any particular case directs that some other period shall be taken to
be the basis period for that year of assessment under this Act.
(3) Where the accounts for the financial year of a company or the accounts of a
business were made up for a period of twelve months to some day in the calendar
year 1966 other than 31 December and accounts were not made up to the
corresponding day in the calendar year 1967, the Director General may act under
subsection 21(3) in relation to the years of assessment 1968 and 1969 under this Act
and, where appropriate, may act under any of the provisions of the repealed laws
mentioned in subparagraph (2) in relation to the year of assessment 1967 under any
repealed law.
Section 23
11. (1) In paragraph 23(c) “any tax” includes previous tax deducted in paying,
crediting or distributing any gross income—
(a) if that previous tax was deducted in the calendar year 1967; or
(b) if part of the basis period for the year of assessment 1968 elapsed
before 1 January 1967, and that previous tax was deducted in that
part of that basis period from gross income which is gross income
for that basis period.
(2) In paragraph 23(d) “tax”, in relation to a dividend, includes previous tax—
(a) if the dividend was paid or credited in the calendar year 1967; or
(b) if part of the basis period for the year of assessment 1968 elapsed
before 1 January 1967, and the dividend, being gross income for that
basis period, was paid or credited in that part of that basis period.
(3) Where a dividend was paid or credited or distributed in specie in the year of
assessment 1966 or 1967 under the Sarawak Ordinance by a company resident in
Sarawak by virtue of that Ordinance for the year of assessment in which the dividend
was paid, credited or distributed, section 23 shall operate in relation to the dividend
so that, for the purposes of sections 24 to 28, it shall be deemed to have been paid,
credited or distributed after deduction of tax at the rate in force for corporation profits
tax in Sarawak for the year of assessment in question and to be of such a gross amount
as after deduction of tax at that rate would be equal to—
(a) the amount of the dividend so paid or credited; or


(b) where the dividend consists of property other than money, the
amount of the market value of that property at the time of the
dividend’s distribution.
Section 24
12. (1) An amount treated under any repealed law as income from a source other
than a source consisting of a business shall not be treated as gross income under this
Act if it is a debt arising in the manner described in paragraph 24(1)(c).
(2) In subsection 24(4) “dividend” does not include any dividend which is
treated under any repealed law as income from a source other than a source consisting
of a business, and in subsection 24(5) “interest” does not include any interest which
is so treated under any repealed law.
PART III
13. Where, in the application of Chapters 3 and 4 of Part III to a person and a source
of his, regard is to be had to any particular period commencing prior to the basis
period for a year of assessment, regard may be had to that particular period
notwithstanding that it commenced prior to the basis period for the year of
assessment 1968.
Sections 30 and 34
14. Where—
(a) a person is chargeable to previous tax in respect of the income or
assessable profits from a business of his or would have been so
chargeable but for an insufficiency of any such income or profits;
and
(b) this Act is applicable to him in respect of gross income from that
business for the basis period for the year of assessment 1968 or any
subsequent year of assessment,
any provision of this Act which is necessary for the proper application of
subsections 30(1) and (4) and 34(2) to him, to that business and to any such year of
assessment may be deemed to have been applicable to him and that business for the
pre-basis period, in relation to that business, for any pre-year of assessment.


Income Tax 517
Section 33
15. Where any particular part of the subject matter of any particular deduction
which but for this paragraph would fall to be made under subsection 33(1) in
computing the adjusted income of a person from a source for the basis period for a
year of assessment has formed the whole or part of the subject matter of a deduction
under any corresponding provision of a repealed law, that particular deduction, if the
amount from which it was deducted is not gross income for the basis period for that
year of assessment, shall be reduced in the application of subsection 33(1) to that
year of assessment by so much thereof as relates to that particular part.
Section 34
16. Where any particular part of the subject matter of any particular deduction
which but for this paragraph would fall to be made under subsection 34(1) in
accordance with subsection (4), (6) or (7) of that section in computing the adjusted
income of a person from a business for the basis period for a year of assessment has
formed the whole or part of the subject matter of a deduction under any corresponding
provision of a repealed law, that particular deduction, if the amount from which it was
deducted is not gross income for the basis period for that year of assessment, shall be
reduced in the application of subsection 34(1) and those subsections to that year of
assessment by so much thereof as relates to that particular part.
Section 35
17. Where the relevant period for the purposes of section 35 is a basis period for
the year of assessment 1968, paragraph (3)(b) of that section shall be so modified
that the value of any particular item of the stock at the beginning of the relevant
period (except where the business was commenced by the relevant person in the
relevant period) shall be taken—
(a) to be an amount equal to the value which would be arrived at if
paragraph (3)(a) were applied at the beginning and not at the end of
the relevant period; or
(b) if a value in respect of that item was had regard to for the purposes
of any repealed law at the end of an accounting period ending
immediately before the relevant period, to be an amount equal to
that value:
Provided that, where the value of an item to which subparagraph (b) applies was
had regard to as mentioned in that subparagraph for the purposes of two or more
repealed laws, regard shall be had for the purposes of that subparagraph to such one
of those laws as the relevant person may elect by notice in writing given to the
Director General within three months after the beginning of the year of assessment


1968 (or within such further period as the Director General may allow) or, if the
relevant person fails so to elect, as the Director General may direct.
Section 43
18. (1) Where a person has incurred, in relation to a source of his, a loss of a kind
deductible under any repealed law, there shall be ascertained the amount thereof, if
any, unallowed after the application of that law to all years of assessment under that
law for which that law was in force:
Provided that, if in the application of this subparagraph to a person and a loss in
relation to a source an amount is so ascertained under the Sabah Ordinance and if
under that Ordinance that loss is one incurred anywhere, this subparagraph shall not
apply to any part of that loss in relation to any repealed law other than that Ordinance.
(2) Where an amount has been ascertained under subparagraph (1) in its
application to a person and a source, then, in the application of section 43 to that
person, that amount (in subparagraph (3) referred to as the specified amount) shall
be treated as the amount ascertained under subsection 44(4) for the pre-year of
assessment 1967, which shall be treated as the particular year of assessment
preceding the relevant year for the purposes of subsection 43(2).
(3) Where the proviso to subparagraph (1) is applicable to a person and that
person is not ordinarily resident for the basis year for the relevant year to which
regard is had in the application of section 43, subsection 43(5) shall apply in order to
ascertain how much of the specified amount is to be taken to be the amount of the
Malaysian loss for the purposes of paragraph 43(5)(a) and the proportion thereof to
be substituted for the purposes of paragraph 43(5)(b).
Section 44
19. (1) Where a loss has been deducted in calculating the assessable income or the
assessable profits (as the case may be) for the year of assessment 1967 under a repealed
law no part of that loss shall be taken into account for the purposes of section 44.
(2) Where approval has been given for the purposes of any of the repealed laws
to an institution of a public character, the approval, if it was still effective on
31 December 1967, shall be deemed to have been given (subject to any conditions
effective on that date) under section 44.
Section 54
20. (1) Where a person has incurred, in relation to a source of his consisting of a
business of a kind to which subsection 54(2) applies, a loss of a kind deductible under


Income Tax 519
any repealed law, there shall be ascertained the amount thereof, if any, unallowed
after the application of that law to all years of assessment under that law for which
that law was in force.
(2) Subparagraph (1) shall apply to a depreciation allowance to which regard is
had under a repealed law as it applies to a loss.
(3) Where an amount has been ascertained under subparagraph (1) or (2) or both
in respect of a person and a source, then, in the application of paragraph 54(4)(a) to
that person, that amount (or, where an amount has been ascertained under either or
both of those subparagraph in relation to more than one repealed law, the aggregate
of the amounts so ascertained) shall be treated as the amount ascertained under
paragraph 54(4)(b) for the pre-year of assessment 1967, which shall be treated as a
year of assessment preceding the relevant year for the purposes of paragraph
54(4)(a).
(4) Paragraph 18 shall not apply to a loss to which this paragraph applies.
Section 60
21. In the application of subparagraphs 60(5)(a)(v) and (6)(a)(v) to the general
business of an insurer for the basis period for the year of assessment 1968,
subsection 60(9) shall not apply and for the amount of his reserve fund for unexpired
risks regard shall be had to the amount taken by him to be the reserve for unexpired
risks at the end of the basis period for the year of assessment 1967 under a repealed
law or, where two or more repealed laws apply, the aggregate of the amounts taken
by him to be the reserves for unexpired risks at the end of the basis period for the
year of assessment 1967 under each of those laws.
Section 68
22. Where an appointment has been made under any repealed law of any person to be
the agent of any other person for any of the purposes of that law, the appointment, if it
was still effective on 31 December 1967, shall be deemed to have been made under
section 68 for any purposes of this Act similar to those first-mentioned purposes.
Section 74
23. In subsections 74(5) and (6) “tax” includes previous tax.


Section 75
24. In subsection 75(2) the references to tax, this Act and section 107 include
references to previous tax, any repealed law and any provision of a repealed law
corresponding to section 107; and subsection 75(3) shall be construed accordingly.
PART VII
25. Part VII (except sections 108, 109 and 110) shall apply, with any necessary
modifications, for the recovery of and otherwise in relation to any previous tax which
is the subject of an assessment made under a repealed law on or after 1 January 1968,
and any sum due in connection with any such previous tax.
Section 104
26. In section 104 the references to tax, sums and debts include references to
previous tax and to sums and debts of a corresponding kind under the repealed laws.
Section 107
27. Where a direction has been given for the year of assessment 1968 under the
Deduction of Income Tax (Employments) Rules 1948 of West Malaysia [G.N. 3305/
1948], the direction shall be deemed to have been given under the
Income Tax (Deduction from Emoluments: West Malaysia) Rules 1967 [P.U.
636/1967].
Section 108
28. (1) Where subsection 108(4) applies to a company for the year of
assessment 1968—
(a) any tax which the company is entitled to deduct (or which is deemed
to be deducted by the company) under the Sabah Ordinance or the
West Malaysian Ordinance from a dividend paid or distributed in
the calendar year 1967, and any tax deemed to be deducted by the
company under paragraph 29 from a dividend paid, credited or
distributed in that calendar year, shall be disregarded in arriving at
the compared total for the purposes of subsection 108(4); and
(b) the reference in subsection 108(4) to “the balance (if any)” shall be
construed—


Income Tax 521
(i) as a reference to the balance (if any) which would have been
carried forward under subsection 40(5) of the West
Malaysian Ordinance or subsection 37(5) of the Sabah
Ordinance if the said section 40 or the said section 37, as the
case may be, was applicable to the company for the year of
assessment 1967 under the West Malaysian Ordinance or the
Sabah Ordinance and would have been so applicable for the
year of assessment 1968 under the West Malaysian
Ordinance or the Sabah Ordinance but for the repeal of the
Ordinance in question; or
(ii) if the company was resident in Sarawak for the year of
assessment 1967 under the Sarawak Ordinance, as a
reference to such a balance (if any) as is ascertained under
paragraph 29.
(2) In the application of subsection 108(8) to any case to which subparagraph (1)
applies, the references in the said subsection 108(8) to a year of assessment, any
assessment and any repayment of tax shall be deemed to include references to a year
of assessment, any assessment and any repayment of tax under any repealed law.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt it is declared that—
(a) any reference in section 108 to a company entitled to deduct tax
from dividends includes a company entitled to declare itself a
resident of Malaysia under paragraph 3 of Article VII of the
Double Taxation Relief (Singapore) Order 1968 [P.U.(A)
518/1968]; and
(b) any reference in subsection 108(8) to repayment of tax includes
payment of the Sabah credit, Sarawak credit or West Malaysian
credit, as the case may be, which payment shall be deemed to have
been made in the year of assessment in which the company became
entitled to the credit.
(4) Where—
(a) a company, which is entitled to a Sabah credit, Sarawak credit or
West Malaysian credit, is a non-resident company the payment of
the Sabah credit, Sarawak credit or West Malaysian credit, as the
case may be, to the company; or
(b) any of the provisos to subparagraphs 69(1), 85(1) and 109(1) applies
to a non-resident company, the payment to a transferee company of
the Sabah credit, Sarawak credit or West Malaysian credit, as the
case may be, to which the non-resident company would have been
entitled but for that proviso,


shall not be deemed to be a repayment of tax under subsection 108(8).
(5) For the purposes of subparagraph (4), a non-resident company refers to a
company which is not resident in the basis year for the year of assessment 1967 but
does not include a company which is entitled to declare itself a resident of Malaysia
under paragraph 3 of Article VII of the Double Taxation Relief (Singapore)
Order 1968.
Section 108
29. (1) Where subsubparagraph 28(1)(b)(ii) applies to a company—
(a) any dividend paid, credited or distributed by the company in any of
the years of assessment 1964 to 1967 inclusive for which the
company was resident in Sarawak under the Sarawak Ordinance
(any such years for which the company was so resident being in this
paragraph referred to as the residential years) shall be deemed to
have been paid, credited or distributed after deduction of Sarawak
tax at the rate in force for the year in question and to be of such a
gross amount as after deduction of Sarawak tax at that rate would
be equal to—
(i) the amount of the dividend so paid or credited; or
(ii) where the dividend consists of property other than money,
the amount of the market value of that property at the time
of the dividend’s distribution,
and a sum equal to the difference between that gross amount and the
amount of the dividend so paid, credited or distributed shall be deemed
to be the amount of the Sarawak tax deducted from that dividend;
(b) for the first of the residential years there shall be ascertained the
excess, if any, of the amount of the federal tax payable by the
company for that first year (that amount being computed after
giving any relief due to the company for that first year by virtue of
section 59 or 61 of the Sarawak Ordinance or the corresponding
provisions of the Sabah Ordinance or the West Malaysian
Ordinance) over the total of all amounts so deemed to have been
deducted from dividends paid, credited or distributed by the
company in that first year;
(c) for each of the residential years subsequent to that first year there
shall be ascertained the excess, if any, of the aggregate of the federal
tax payable by the company for that subsequent year, and the excess,


Income Tax 523
if any, for the latest of the residential years preceding that
subsequent year (as ascertained under this subparagraph or, where
this subsubparagraph does not apply to that preceding year, under
subparagraph (b)) over the total of all amounts so deemed to have
been deducted from dividends paid by the company in that
subsequent year; and
(d) the excess ascertained under subparagraph (c) (or, where
subparagraph (c) does not apply, under subparagraph (b)) for the
year of assessment 1967 in relation to the company shall be deemed
to be the balance.
(2) Where this paragraph has applied to a dividend which has been credited, it
shall not apply to that dividend when paid.
Section 108
30. In paragraph 29—
“federal tax” means any one or more of the following, that is to say, the income tax
imposed by the Sabah Ordinance, the corporation profits tax imposed by the Sarawak
Ordinance and the income tax imposed by the West Malaysian Ordinance, but does not
include tin profits tax or development tax imposed under any repealed law;
“Sarawak tax” means the corporation profits tax imposed by the Sarawak
Ordinance, but does not include development tax imposed by that Ordinance;
“year of assessment”, in relation to Sarawak tax, means a year of assessment for
the purposes of the Sarawak Ordinance, and in relation to federal tax means a year
of assessment for the purposes of any one or more of the repealed laws.
Section 110
31. (1) Subject to subparagraph (2), in the application of section 110, other than
subsections (8), (9), (10) and (12) thereof, any reference to tax shall include a
reference—
(a) to any previous tax deducted from any dividend or interest paid in
the calendar year 1967; or
(b) where part of the basis period for the year of assessment 1968
elapsed before 1 January 1967, to any previous tax deducted in that
part of that basis period from any dividend or interest which is gross
income for that basis period.


(2) Subparagraph (1) shall not apply to any tax imposed under the West
Malaysian Ordinance or the Sabah Ordinance and deducted from any dividend or
interest if by virtue of subparagraph 12(2) that dividend or interest is not to be
included as gross income for the basis period for a year of assessment.
(3) Where an amount of previous tax is deemed by virtue of subparagraph 11(3)
to have been deducted from a dividend and the dividend is included in the gross
income of a person from a source for the basis period for a year of assessment, that
amount shall be deemed for the purposes of section 110 to be tax deducted under
section 108.
Section 115
32. In subsection 115(1) the references to tax, sums and debts include references
to previous tax and sums and debts of a corresponding kind under the repealed laws.
Section 127
33. Any exemption from any previous tax or from any provision of a repealed law
shall, if it was made under a repealed law and was effective on 31 December 1967,
be deemed to have been made by an order under section 127 in relation to tax
imposed by this Act or in relation to the corresponding provision of this Act, as the
case may be:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply in relation to—
(a) any such exemption for which provision is made, with or without
modification, in this Act; or
(b) subsection 44(3) of the Sarawak Ordinance.
Section 131
34. In subsection 131(3) the references to tax, years of assessment and assessments
include references to previous tax and to years of assessment and assessments under
any repealed law.
Section 134
35. (1) With effect from 1 January 1968—


Income Tax 525
(a) the person holding on 31 December 1967, the office of Director
General of Inland Revenue shall become Director General of Inland
Revenue within the meaning of subsection 134(1);
(b) all other persons holding on 31 December 1967, federal public
offices in the Inland Revenue Department shall become federal
public officers for the purposes of subsection 134(2); and
(c) the Director General may with the concurrence of the Director
General of Establishments make such changes (if any) in the
designation of the offices held by those other persons as he
considers necessary and appropriate in order to implement and
conform with subsection 134(2):
Provided that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as altering any officer’s
terms of service.
(2) Subsections 136(2) to (5) shall not apply to the exercise of the Director
General’s functions under subsubparagraph (1)(c).
(3) To such extent as may be necessary for the proper application of this Act in
relation to the year of assessment 1968, subparagraph (1) shall have effect as if any
references therein to 1 January 1968, and 31 December 1967, were references to
28 September 1967, and 27 September 1967, respectively.
Section 138
36. Where for the purposes of any repealed law a person has made a declaration of
a kind corresponding to a declaration required by subsection 138(1), the declaration
so made shall be treated as a declaration that he will regard and deal with classified
material as confidential and as a declaration made and subscribed by him for the
purposes of section 138.
Section 142
37. Where by virtue of paragraph 25 civil proceedings are taken under section 106
for the recovery of previous tax or any other sum due under a repealed law,
section 142 shall apply in relation to those proceedings and that tax or sum as it
applies in relation to proceedings for the recovery of tax due under this Act.
Section 149
38. Section 149 shall not apply to an order deemed to have been made under
paragraph 33.


Section 150
39. Where approval has been given for the purposes of any of the repealed laws to
a retirement scheme or to a pension or provident fund or society, the approval, if it
was still effective on 31 December 1967, shall be deemed to have been given (subject
to any conditions effective on that date) under section 150.
Section 154
40. (1) In paragraph 154(1)(e) the references to tax include a reference to
previous tax and the reference to sums due includes a reference to sums of a
corresponding kind due under the repealed laws.
(2) Rules made under section 154 may include such transitional and saving
provisions as may be expedient in the circumstances.
Schedule 2:6
41. For the purposes of Schedule 2, where the operator owned an asset at the
beginning of the basis period for the year of assessment 1968 and has incurred capital
expenditure as defined in the Income Tax (Mining Operations) Rules 1949, of West
Malaysia [F.L.N. 534/49] on or for the asset in connection with the working of the
mine—
(a) the asset shall be deemed to be included in the definition of “mining
asset” in paragraph 6 of that Schedule; and
(b) that capital expenditure to the extent allowed or determined to rank
as capital expenditure under the Income Tax (Mining Operations)
Rules 1949, of West Malaysia shall be treated as qualifying mining
expenditure.
Schedule 2:15
42. Paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 shall not apply where the operator (within the
meaning of that Schedule) permanently ceases to work a mine in the basis period for
the year of assessment 1968; and, where he permanently ceases to work a mine in
the basis period for any of the years of assessment 1969 to 1972 inclusive—
(a) the reference to preceding years of assessment in subparagraph (a)
of that paragraph shall include a reference to years of assessment
under the West Malaysian Ordinance; and


Income Tax 527
(b) the references to repayments of tax and assessments in subparagraph
(b) of that paragraph shall include references to repayments of
previous tax and assessments under the West Malaysian Ordinance.
Schedule 2:22
43. Where any capital expenditure is included by virtue of paragraph 41 in the total
qualifying mining expenditure mentioned in the definition of “residual expenditure”
in paragraph 22 of Schedule 2, that total, apart from any other deductions made for
the purposes of that definition, shall be reduced by the amount—
(a) by which capital expenditure incurred prior to the commencement
of the basis period for the year of assessment 1948 exceeds the
residue of capital expenditure for that year of assessment as
computed in accordance with rule 2(vii)(a) of the Income Tax
(Mining Operations) Rules 1949;
(b) of any deductions made under paragraph 14(1)(h) of the West
Malaysian Ordinance in respect of that capital expenditure in
computing the income of the operator in question from the business
in question for any period in ascertaining the statutory income from
the business for any year of assessment under that Ordinance ending
before 1 January 1968; and
(c) of any recoupment of that capital expenditure in relation to the mine
in question received by the operator before that date and taken into
account in computing any allowance under that Ordinance.
Schedule 3:5
44. For the purposes of paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 in its relation to a building, in
any case where the expenditure on the construction of the building in question was
incurred prior to 1 January 1968, references in that paragraph to “year of assessment’
and “basis period” shall be deemed to include references to any pre-year of
assessment and to any pre-basis period respectively.
Schedule 3:10, 11 and 22
45. (1) Where in a case to which paragraph 10 or 11 of Schedule 3 or
subparagraph (2) of this paragraph applies the basis period for the year of assessment
1967 under a repealed law overlaps the basis period for the year of assessment 1968,
then, for the purposes of paragraph 10, 11 or 22, as the case may be, of Schedule 3,
expenditure incurred in the period common to those two basis periods shall not be
treated as incurred in the basis period for the year of assessment 1968.


(2) Where a person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred prior to the
basis period for the year of assessment 1968 qualifying plantation expenditure on the
construction of a building, then, if but for the repeal of the repealed laws he would
have been entitled to an allowance in respect of that expenditure for a particular year
of assessment under any of the repealed laws commencing after 31 December 1967,
there shall be made to him under paragraph 22 of Schedule 3 in relation to the source
consisting of that business for the year of assessment under this Act which coincides
with that particular year an allowance equal to the amount of any allowance or
allowances to which he would have been so entitled for that particular year.
Schedule 3:23
46. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 23 of Schedule 3, where in the basis period
for the year of assessment 1967 under any repealed law a person has for the purposes
of a business of his incurred qualifying plantation expenditure other than expenditure
on the construction of a building, there shall be made to him in relation to the source
consisting of that business for the year of assessment 1968 an allowance equal to
one-half of that expenditure:
Provided that this subparagraph shall not apply in relation to any expenditure
incurred in Sarawak.
(2) Where a person has for the purposes of a business of his incurred (prior to 31
December 1964) capital expenditure within the meaning of section 14 of the Sabah
Ordinance upon a plantation or (prior to 31 December 1961) capital expenditure
within the meaning of section 18A of the West Malaysian Ordinance, then, if but for
the repeal of those Ordinances he would have been entitled to an allowance in respect
of that expenditure for a particular year of assessment (under the appropriate one of
those Ordinances) commencing after 31 December 1967, there shall be made to him
under paragraph 23 of Schedule 3 in relation to the source consisting of that business
for the year of assessment which coincides with that particular year an allowance
equal to the amount of the allowance to which he would have been so entitled for
that particular year.
(3) Where in a case to which subparagraph (1) or (2) applies the basis period for
the year of assessment 1967 under a repealed law overlaps the basis period for the
year of assessment 1968, then, for the purposes of paragraph 23 of Schedule 3,
expenditure incurred in the period common to those two basis periods shall not be
treated as incurred in the basis period for the year of assessment 1968.
Schedule 3:26
47. For the purposes of paragraph 26 of Schedule 3, if any sum as therein
mentioned falls into charge to tax imposed under the West Malaysian Ordinance or


Income Tax 529
the Sabah Ordinance for the year of assessment 1967, that paragraph shall not apply
to that sum.
Schedule 3:27
48. (1) Paragraph 27 of Schedule 3 shall not apply in relation to a person, an asset
or a business of his where, under subsection 18A(3) of the West Malaysian Ordinance
or subsection 14(3) of the Sabah Ordinance, any sum of money or consideration is
deemed to be that person’s income for the year of assessment 1967 under the
Ordinance in question, and the whole or any part of the sum or consideration relates
directly or indirectly to that asset.
(2) In relation to a person, an asset and a business of his, the reference in
paragraph 27 of Schedule 3 to qualifying agriculture expenditure shall when
appropriate include capital expenditure (as defined in section 18A of the West
Malaysian Ordinance and in section 14 of the Sabah Ordinance) incurred on that
asset; and, when there is such an inclusion, then, if the preliminary conditions of that
paragraph are satisfied, the references in subsubparagraph (b) of that paragraph to
“agriculture allowance”, “year of assessment” and “allowances” shall include
respectively—
(a) any allowance made to that person under the said section 18A or 14
which relates directly or indirectly to any such capital expenditure
incurred on that asset;
(b) any year of assessment under either of those Ordinances; and
(c) any such allowances,
and the reference in the proviso to that paragraph to “year of assessment” shall
include any year of assessment under either of those Ordinances.
Schedule 3:35
49. Paragraph 35 of Schedule 3 shall not apply to an asset disposed of by a person
if a balancing charge in relation to that asset has been made on him under any
repealed law.
Schedule 3:36
50. In the application of paragraph 36 of Schedule 3 to a person and an asset, if the
asset is disposed of by him in the basis period for the year of assessment 1968, the
reference in that paragraph to an initial or annual allowance shall be taken to be a
reference to an initial or annual allowance of a kind allowed under any repealed law.


Schedule 3:37
51. In the application of paragraph 37 of Schedule 3 to a person and an asset, there
shall be included in the total therein mentioned all allowances of a kind similar to
allowances under that Schedule made to him under any repealed law in relation to
that asset.
Schedule 3:39 and 40
52. Paragraphs 39 and 40 of Schedule 3 shall not apply to an asset disposed of if a
balancing allowance or charge in relation to that asset has been made on a person
(being the disposer in relation to that asset for the purposes of paragraphs 38 and 39
of that Schedule) under any repealed law.
Schedule 3:40 and 41
53. Rules made under paragraph 40 or 41 of Schedule 3 may be made applicable
for transitional purposes to any repealed law and to any matter to which that law has
been applicable.
Schedule 3:42
54. Paragraph 42 of Schedule 3 shall not apply to a building constructed prior to
the basis period for the year of assessment 1968.
Schedule 3:57
55. Where in relation to an asset and a business of a person the period of any disuse
for the purposes of paragraph 57 of Schedule 3 is a period which commenced prior
to the basis period for the year of assessment 1968, all such assessments shall be
made under any repealed law as may be necessary to counteract the benefit of any
allowance made to that person for any year of assessment under that law in relation
to that asset.
Schedule 3:68
56. (1) Subject to this paragraph, in the application of paragraph 68 of Schedule
3 in relation to an asset and a person as therein mentioned, any capital expenditure
incurred by him on the asset shall be treated as qualifying expenditure incurred by
him for the purposes of that paragraph and, where the total qualifying expenditure
has been ascertained under that paragraph as construed with this subparagraph, that


Income Tax 531
total shall be reduced in the manner provided by that paragraph (if applicable) and
by any allowance made to him in relation to that asset.
(2) Subject to subparagraph (3), in subparagraph (1)—
“allowance” means any allowance made under any provision of any repealed law
corresponding to any provision of Schedule 3 or any amount written off under any
repealed law for any year of assessment for which no initial or annual allowance falls
to be made in relation to an industrial building or any amount which was deducted
from the capital expenditure under the provisions of any repealed law in connection
with the computation of the value of an asset acquired before the basis period for the
first year of assessment under any repealed law;
“capital expenditure” means capital expenditure as defined in any repealed law for
the purposes of any provisions thereof corresponding to any provisions of
Schedule 3.
(3) In the application of subparagraphs (1) and (2) in relation to a person and an
asset if, but for this subparagraph, regard would be had to the same amount in respect
of any capital expenditure or allowance by reference to more than one repealed law,
regard shall be had to that amount only by reference to the appropriate repealed law,
that is to say—
(a) the repealed law by virtue of which he is resident in the territory to
which the law applies; or
(b) if there are two or more such laws, one of those laws elected by him
when he first makes a claim for an allowance under Schedule 3 in
respect of the asset or, in default of such an election, specified by
the Director General.
Schedule 3:69
57. Where for the purpose of this Schedule and Schedule 3 it is necessary to have
regard to an allowance made under any repealed law, paragraph 69 of Schedule 3
shall apply (with such modifications as may be necessary) by reference to the
repealed law relating to any such allowance.
Schedule 3:75
58. (1) In relation to a person, an asset and a business of his, if effect cannot be
given or cannot be given in full to any allowance or allowances of the kind defined
in subparagraph 56(2) to which paragraph 57 applies, that allowance or those
allowances (or, as the case may be, the amount thereof to which effect has not been
so given) shall be deemed to be an allowance to be made to him for the purposes of


paragraph 75 of Schedule 3, the reference therein to the first subsequent year of
assessment being treated as a reference to the year of assessment 1968 if there is
adjusted income from that business for the basis period for that year or, in the absence
of any such adjusted income, as a reference to the first year of assessment subsequent
to the year of assessment 1968 for the basis period for which there is any such
adjusted income:
Provided that, where this paragraph has been applied to any allowance or
allowances or to any part thereof in relation to a business, this paragraph shall not
apply to that allowance, those allowances or that part in relation to any other business
of his.
(2) Subparagraph 56(3) shall apply to allowances affected by this paragraph as it
applies to allowances within the meaning of subparagraph 56(1).
Schedule 3: general
59. Unless the context otherwise requires and subject to this Schedule, any
reference in Schedule 3 to expenditure includes a reference to expenditure incurred
before the basis period for the year of assessment 1968 and any reference in that
Schedule to anything done or to any event includes a reference to a thing or event of
the kind in question done or occurring before that basis period.
Schedule 4
60. (1) Subject to this paragraph, where in any case a person makes a claim under
Schedule 4 for a deduction for a year of assessment in respect of qualifying
prospecting expenditure, then, for the purposes of applying that Schedule to that case
regard may be had to any such expenditure incurred (and any event which took place)
not more than ten years before the end of the basis year for that year of assessment
notwithstanding that the whole or part of that period of ten years elapsed before the
commencement of this Act; and, whenever necessary, the reference in the proviso to
paragraph 11 of that Schedule to a transaction to which section 140 applies shall be
construed to include a transaction to which that section would have applied if it had
been in force at the date of that transaction.
(2) Subparagraph (1) shall not apply to any expenditure incurred in Sabah or
Sarawak, prior to the basis year for the year of assessment 1968 or to any expenditure
with respect to which any deduction has been made under section 14A of the West
Malaysian Ordinance.


Income Tax 533
Schedule 5
61. Where a notice of appeal against an assessment is given under the Sabah
Ordinance or the West Malaysian Ordinance or a notice of objection to an assessment
is given under the Sarawak Ordinance, then—
(a) if the notice was given before 1 January 1968, and the hearing of
the appeal has not commenced before that date, the person to whom
the notice was given shall forward it to the Secretary to the Special
Commissioners as soon as may be after that date;
(b) if the notice is given after that date, it shall, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Schedule, be given to the Secretary to the
Special Commissioners and not to the person who would otherwise
have received it,
and, where a notice relating to an assessment is forwarded or given to the Secretary
to the Special Commissioners in pursuance of this paragraph, an appeal against the
assessment shall be deemed to have been forwarded to the Special Commissioners
and shall be disposed of as nearly as may be in accordance with Schedule 5.
Application of this Act to assessment made under repealed law
61A. (1) Where an assessment under a repealed law is made on a person on or after
1 January 1972, the provisions of section 97 and Chapter 2 of Part VI of this Act
shall apply to such assessment as if the assessment was made under section 90 or 91,
as the case may be, of this Act.
(2) Where subparagraph (1) applies, the provisions to the contrary relating to
appeal or objection against an assessment contained in a repealed law shall not apply.
Income related back
62. Where—
(a) by the operation of this Act any income of a person from a source
of his is to be regarded as income receivable in respect of a period
before the basis period for the year of assessment 1968; and
(b) that income would have been gross income for the pre-basis period
for a pre-year of assessment if this Act had been in operation at the
material time,
that income, if not otherwise subject to previous tax, shall be treated as income for
the year of assessment under the appropriate repealed law which corresponds to that


pre-year of assessment or, if there is no such corresponding year of assessment, as
income for the year of assessment under that law which includes the 1 July of that
pre-year of assessment.
PART II
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SABAH
Application and power of remission
63. (1) This Part shall apply only to Sabah.
(2) Any tax paid or payable by virtue of this Part may be remitted by the Director
General on grounds of undue hardship; and section 129 shall apply in relation to any
tax so remitted as it applies in relation to tax remitted under that section.
Interpretation
64. In this Part—
“appropriate date”, in relation to a person, means the date on which the appropriate
event mentioned in paragraphs 71 to 74 which gives him entitlement to payment of
the Sabah credit of a company apportioned to him occurs;
“old tax” means income tax (excluding any tax deemed to be income tax under the
Sabah Ordinance) imposed under the Sabah Ordinance;
“relevant date”, in relation to a company, means the date on which the appropriate
event mentioned in paragraph 69 which gives it entitlement to payment of the Sabah
credit occurs;
“Sabah credit” means the amount ascertained under paragraph 68;
“statutory income”, in relation to a person, a source and a year of assessment under
the Sabah Ordinance, means the amount of his income from that source for the basis
period under that Ordinance for that year of assessment increased by any balancing
charge falling to be made in relation to that source for that year of assessment and
reduced by any allowance falling to be made for that year under sections 14 to 21 of
that Ordinance in relation to that source;
“year of assessment 1966/67” means the year of assessment commencing
on 1 July 1966, under the Sabah Ordinance;
“year of assessment 1967’ means the year of assessment 1967 under the Sabah
Ordinance;


Income Tax 535
“year of assessment 1967/68” means the year of assessment commencing on
1 July 1967, under the Sabah Ordinance.
No chargeable income in certain cases
65. In the application of subparagraph 3(1) of this Schedule, a person shall be
deemed not to have any chargeable income under the Sabah Ordinance for the year
of assessment 1967/68.
Provisions as to statutory income for certain years of assessment
66. (1) In the case of a person other than a company, the aggregate of—
(a) so much of his statutory income for the year of assessment 1967/68
from each source of his other than a source consisting of a business
(or, where paragraph (b) applies, from each source of his) as bears
the same proportion to that statutory income as the number of days
of the interval period bears to the number of days in the basis period
in relation to that source under the Sabah Ordinance for that year of
assessment; and
(b) where the accounts of a business of that person were made up for a
period of twelve months ending on a day in the second half of the
calendar year 1965 and the Commissioner has made a direction under
subsection 28(2) of the Sabah Ordinance to treat that period as the basis
period under that Ordinance for the year of assessment 1966/67, so
much of what would have been the statutory income from each source
of his other than a source consisting of a business for the year of
assessment commencing on 1 July 1968, under the Sabah Ordinance,
but for its repeal, as bears the same proportion to that statutory income
as the number of days of the interval period bears to the number of days
in the basis period in relation to that source under that Ordinance for the
year of assessment commencing on 1 July 1968, under that Ordinance,
shall be deemed to be statutory income of his for the year of assessment 1966/67
from a source of his.
(2) The amount of the statutory income of a person for the year of
assessment 1966/67 from a source of his as ascertained under subparagraph (1) shall
be charged to old tax for that year at the effective rate of tax; and Parts XI to XIII of
the Sabah Ordinance shall apply to that amount as if that amount had been additional
chargeable income of that person for that year.


(3) Where subparagraph (1) applies to a person and in his case there is no
effective rate of tax, then, if none of the sources of income of that person was
possessed by him for the whole of the basis period, in relation to each source, under
the Sabah Ordinance for the year of assessment 1966/67, and the amount of his
statutory income ascertained under subparagraph (1) exceeds the aggregate of the
statutory income from each source of that person for that year—
(a) the effective rate of tax shall be ascertained by substituting that
amount for that aggregate; and
(b) the total of that amount and the assessable income for the year of
assessment 1966/67 (or, where there is no assessable income for that
year, the total of that amount and the aggregate of the statutory
income, if any, from each source of that person for that year reduced
by the amount of any loss falling to be deducted under section 32 of
the Sabah Ordinance in ascertaining the assessable income of that
person for that year) shall be charged to old tax for that year at the
effective rate of tax so ascertained; and Parts XI to XIII of the Sabah
Ordinance shall apply as if that total (or, as the case may be, that
total as so reduced) had been the chargeable income of that person
for that year and that effective rate of tax had been the rate set forth
in Part I of the Third Schedule to that Ordinance in relation to that
person for that year.
(4) Where subparagraph (1) applies to a person and in his case the amount of
any loss or the aggregate of the amount of any losses falling to be deducted under
section 32 of the Sabah Ordinance in ascertaining the assessable income of that
person for the year of assessment 1966/67 exceeds the aggregate of the statutory
income from each source of that person for that year, the excess shall be deducted
from the amount of his statutory income ascertained under subparagraph (1); and in
the application of paragraph 18 in relation to that person, regard shall be had only to
the balance (if any) of any such loss or losses after the application of this
subparagraph.
(5) Where by the operation of paragraph 62 any income of a person from a
source falls to be treated as income for the year of assessment 1967/68, that income—
(a) shall be added to his statutory income from that source for the year
of assessment 1967/68; or
(b) where he has no statutory income from that source for that year—
(i) if there is an amount of loss in relation to that source (being
a loss which would fall to be deducted under section 32 of
the Sabah Ordinance, but for its repeal, in ascertaining the
assessable income for that year) the amount of that loss shall
be reduced by the amount of that income or where that


Income Tax 537
income exceeds that loss the excess shall be deemed to be
statutory income from that source for that year;
(ii) if there is no such loss, the amount of that income shall be
taken to be his statutory income from that source for that
year,
and this paragraph shall apply to that loss as so reduced or, as the case may be, that
statutory income.
(6) For the purposes of this paragraph, except where the context in
subparagraphs (3) and (4) otherwise requires—
“basis period”, in a case where a person other than a company possesses a source
for a part or parts, but not for the whole, of a basis period, is to be construed as
meaning that part or those parts of the basis period in question;
“effective rate of tax” in relation to a person, means the rate determined by dividing
the amount of old tax chargeable on the chargeable income (excluding any additional
chargeable income created under subparagraph (2)) of that person for the year of
assessment 1966/67 by the amount of the assessable income of that person for that
year;
“interval period”, in relation to the year of assessment 1967/68 or the year of
assessment commencing on 1 July 1968, under the Sabah Ordinance means that part
of the basis period for that year which elapsed before 1 January 1967.
Ascertainment of old tax payable by company
67. For the purposes of this Part, in the case of a company the accounts of a
business of whom were made up for a period of twelve months ending on a day in
the calendar year 1966 other than 31 December (being a company with respect to
which the Commissioner has not made a direction under subsection 28(2) of the
Sabah Ordinance to treat that period as the basis period under that Ordinance for the
year of assessment 1967) there shall be ascertained—
(a) the total amount of all old tax payable by that company, whether
assessed under one or more assessments for that year of assessment,
that total being computed after giving any relief due to that company
for that year on or before the relevant date by virtue of section 41 or
43 of the Sabah Ordinance; and
(b) the amount of that total paid by the company on or before the
relevant date and not refunded or repaid to it on or before the
relevant date.


Ascertainment of Sabah credit
68. (1) There shall be ascertained with respect to the old tax paid by a company
as ascertained under paragraph 67 the Sabah credit in accordance with the following
subparagraphs.
(2) In the case of a company to which paragraph 67 applies, the Sabah credit
shall be so much of the old tax paid for the year of assessment 1967 as bears the same
proportion to that old tax as the total of the statutory income from each source for the
overlapping period bears to the assessable income of the company for that year.
(3) In this paragraph—
“overlapping period” means that part of the basis period under the Sabah
Ordinance in relation to a source for a year of assessment under that Ordinance which
overlaps the basis period in relation to that source for a year of assessment under this
Act;
“total of the statutory income from each source for the overlapping period”, in
relation to a company, means so much of the aggregate of the statutory income from
each source of that company for a year of assessment under the Sabah Ordinance,
reduced by any amount falling to be deducted under section 32 of that Ordinance in
ascertaining the assessable income of the company under that Ordinance for that
year, as bears the same proportion to that aggregate as so reduced as the aggregate
of the number of days of the overlapping period in relation to each source bears to
the aggregate of the number of days in the basis period in relation to each source
under that Ordinance for that year.
Events in which Sabah credit is payable to company
69. (1) Subject to paragraph 76, the Sabah credit of a company shall be
payable upon the date of the occurrence of such one of the following events as
first occurs in relation to the company, that is to say, on the dissolution of the
company after 31 December 1967, or on its satisfying the Director General that
it has not gone into dissolution before 1 January 1988, or, in the case of a
company which ceases to have income (other than dividends) derived from
Malaysia in the basis year for a year of assessment, on its satisfying the Director
General that it was not resident for that basis year or for a year subsequent thereto
and that it is not likely to have any income (other than dividends) derived from
Malaysia in any of the two years following that basis year or, as the case may be,
that subsequent year:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply on the dissolution of a particular
company after 31 December 1967, if at or about the time of the dissolution any of
the assets of that particular company available for distribution to its members are
transferred—


Income Tax 539
(a) to a company which together with that particular company is a
member of the same group;
(b) to a company more than fifty per cent of the shares of which are
held by members of that particular company; or
(c) to the members of that particular company or to a person or persons
having control of that particular company within the meaning of
section 139.
(2) Where the proviso to subparagraph (1) applies on the transfer of a company’s
assets, the Sabah credit to which, but for that proviso, the company would have been
entitled shall be paid in accordance with the following subparagraphs.
(3) Subject to subparagraph (4)—
(a) where all the assets of a company are transferred to the members of
the company or to persons having control of the company within the
meaning of section 139, the Sabah credit of the company shall be
apportioned among them in the proportion in which they held as
beneficial owners the ordinary share capital of the company at the
date of its dissolution (“ordinary share capital” here having the same
meaning as in the definition of “director” in subsection 2(1)), or, in
the case of persons having such control, in the proportion in which
they held their controlling interest, and shall be paid to each of them
on the appropriate date;
(b) where all the assets of a company are transferred to a single person
having such control, the Sabah credit of the company shall be
regarded as his and shall be paid to him on the appropriate date.
(4) Where a member or person to whom a Sabah credit (or any portion thereof)
is to be paid under subparagraph (3) is a company, the amount to be paid shall be
treated as a Sabah credit of the company and subparagraph (1) shall apply with
respect to the payment of that credit.
(5) Where subparagraph (3) does not apply, the Sabah credit of a company shall
be treated as a Sabah credit of the transferee and subparagraph (1) shall apply with
respect to the payment of that credit.
(6) In a case where there are two or more transfers (other than transfers to
members of the company or to a person or persons having control of the company
within the meaning of section 139) to which the proviso to subparagraph (1) applies,
subparagraph (5) shall be applied by making such apportionment of the Sabah credit
among the transferees as the Director General considers to be reasonably necessary
in order to give proper effect to subparagraph (5) in the circumstances.


Credit payable to company before dissolution in certain cases
70. Where the Director General is satisfied that the dissolution of a company is
imminent and that the company will be entitled on its dissolution to the Sabah credit,
he may make the amount of the Sabah credit available to the liquidator of the company;
and, if the company is not dissolved within three months (or such longer period as the
Director General may consider reasonable in the circumstances) after the making
available of that amount to the liquidator, it shall be the duty of the liquidator to return
that amount to the Director General upon being called upon to do so.
Events in which company’s credit apportioned to individual is payable
71. Subject to paragraph 76, so much of the Sabah credit of a company as is
apportioned under subparagraph 69(3) to an individual who was a member of that
company at the time of its dissolution shall be payable on the date of the occurrence
of such one of the following events as first occurs in relation to him:
(a) on his satisfying the Director General that he attained the age of
fifty-five years before 1 January 1968;
(b) on his death at any time after 31 December 1967;
(c) on his attaining at any time after 31 December 1967, the age of
fifty-five years;
(d) on his departure from Malaysia, if he is not a citizen and if he
satisfies the Director General as to the matters set out in paragraph
72;
(e) if he was not resident for the basis year (being the year in which the
company was dissolved or a year subsequent thereto) for a year of
assessment and is not a citizen, on his satisfying the Director
General that in that basis year or prior thereto he ceased to have any
income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia and that he is
not likely to have any income (other than dividends) derived from
Malaysia in any of the two years following that basis year;
(f) on his satisfying the Director General that he was not entitled
before 1 January 1988, to payment of the amount of the Sabah
credit apportioned to him;
(g) on his satisfying the Director General that he was prevented by
serious disability from being gainfully employed for a period of not
less than twelve months and during that period he did not have any
source of income; or


Income Tax 541
(h) on his satisfying the Director General that he is in receipt of a
pension derived from Malaysia and that he does not have and is not
likely to have any other source of income:
Provided that subsubparagraph (d) shall not apply to the individual if at the time
of his departure from Malaysia he has any source (being a source the income from
which is wholly or partly derived from Malaysia) other than—
(i) a source from which dividends arise;
(ii) a source from which interest arises;
(iii) a source consisting of a pension derived from Malaysia; or
(iv) a source consisting of an employment which will cease upon
the expiration of a period of leave which commences on his
departure or at the end of a period of travel which
commences on his departure.
Matters as to which Director General is to be satisfied for the purposes of
paragraph 71
72. For the purposes of subsubparagraph 71(d), an individual is required to satisfy
the Director General that the individual—
(a) has not at the date of his departure from Malaysia obtained a
Malaysian entry or re-entry permit or other like document;
(b) has not at the date under any written law any right of entry or re-
entry into Malaysia; and
(c) is not likely to be resident in any of the basis years for the five years
of assessment commencing with the year of assessment which
follows the year of assessment in the basis year for which the
departure took place.
Trustees and executors
73. Subject to paragraph 76, so much of the Sabah credit of a company as is
apportioned under subparagraph 69(3) to the trustees of a trust or the executors of a
deceased person (the trustees or the executors, as the case may be, being members of
the company at the time of its dissolution) shall be payable—
(a) on the termination of the trust or on the ascertainment of the residue
of the estate of the deceased person, as the case may be;


(b) on their satisfying the Director General that the trust has not
been terminated (or, as the case may be, the residue
ascertained) before 1 January 1988; or
(c) where the trust body ceases, or the executors cease, to have income
(other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in the basis year
(being the year in which the company was dissolved or a year
subsequent thereto) for a year of assessment, on their satisfying the
Director General that the trust body was not, or the executors were
not, resident for that basis year, and that the trust body is not, or the
executors are not, likely to have any income (other than dividends)
derived from Malaysia in any of the two years following that basis
year.
Provisions applicable when paragraphs 71 to 73 do not apply
74. Subject to paragraph 76, so much of the Sabah credit of a company as is
apportioned under subparagraph 69(3) to a person (being a member of the company
at the time of its dissolution) to whom none of paragraphs 71 to 73 applies shall be
payable—
(a) on application to the Director General in the year of assessment
1988; or
(b) on application to the Director General before that year if the
Director General is satisfied that there are circumstances similar to
those in which a company would be entitled to payment of a Sabah
credit before that year.
Married women
75. Where the Sabah credit of a company is apportioned under subparagraph 69(3)
to a woman who was a member of the company at the time of its dissolution, so much
of that credit as is so apportioned to her shall be paid if she is married, whether at
that time or subsequently thereto, and before the date on which she would otherwise
have been entitled to payment thereof to her husband on the appropriate date in
relation to him as if that credit had been apportioned to him:
Provided that—
(a) where the husband becomes entitled to payment of the credit so
apportioned by virtue of subsubparagraph 71(d), that paragraph
shall be so modified as to require the husband to satisfy the Director
General as to the matters set out in paragraph 72 not only in respect
of himself but also in respect of his wife, or, if paragraph 72 is not


Income Tax 543
applicable to her, as to the matters set out in subsubparagraph 71(e)
in respect of his wife;
(b) where the husband becomes so entitled by virtue of
subsubparagraph 71(e), that paragraph shall be so modified as to
require the husband to satisfy the Director General as to the matters
set out therein not only in respect of himself but also in respect of
his wife, or, where subsubparagraph 71(e) is not applicable to her
as to the matters set out in paragraph 72 in respect of his wife.
Power to set off credit against tax payable
76. Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs of this Part, where in any calendar
year any company becomes entitled to payment of a Sabah credit or a person
becomes entitled to payment of the Sabah credit of a company apportioned to him,
the Director General may withhold payment thereof for the purposes of setting off
the amount thereof against any tax or previous tax payable by that company or, as
the case may be, by that person.
Construction of references to certain years of assessment
77. Where in any case regard is to be had by virtue of this Schedule to the year of
assessment 1966 or 1967 under the Sabah Ordinance or to a year of assessment under
the Sabah Ordinance coinciding with the calendar year 1966 or 1967, and in that case
the appropriate year of assessment under that Ordinance is the year of assessment
commencing on 1 July 1965, or the year of assessment 1966/67, regard shall be had
to the year of assessment commencing on 1 July 1965, or the year of
assessment 1966/67, as the case may be, and the basis period therefor in relation to
a source, and not to the year of assessment 1966 or 1967 or the year of assessment
coinciding with the calendar year 1966 or 1967, or the basis period therefor.
PART III
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SARAWAK
Application and power of remission
78. (1) This Part shall apply only to Sarawak.
(2) Any tax paid or payable by virtue of this Part may be remitted by the Director
General on grounds of undue hardship; and section 129 shall apply in relation to any
tax so remitted as it applies in relation to tax remitted under that section.


Interpretation
79. In this part—
“old tax” means the profits tax (excluding any tax deemed to be profits tax under
the Sarawak Ordinance) imposed under the Sarawak Ordinance;
“relevant date”, in relation to any person means the date on which the appropriate
event mentioned in paragraphs 83 to 88 which gives him entitlement to payment of
the Sarawak credit occurs;
“Sarawak credit” means the amount ascertained under paragraph 82;
“year of assessment 1967” means the year of assessment 1967 under the Sarawak
Ordinance.
No chargeable income in certain cases
80. Subject to paragraph 93, in the application of subparagraph 3(1) of this
Schedule a person chargeable to salaries tax under the Sarawak Ordinance shall be
deemed not to have any chargeable income under that Ordinance for the year of
assessment 1967.
Ascertainment of old tax payable by a person
81. In the case of a person the accounts of a business of whom were made up to a
date in the calendar year 1966 other than 31 December that business being a business
with respect to which the Commissioner has not made a direction under
subsection 25(1) of the Sarawak Ordinance to treat that period as the period by
reference to which the assessable profits or loss from the business was to be
computed there shall be ascertained for the purposes of this Part—
(a) the total amount of all profits tax payable by that person whether
assessed under one or more assessments for the year of
assessment 1967, that total being computed after giving any relief due
to him for that year on or before the relevant date by virtue or
section 59 or 61 of the Sarawak Ordinance; and
(b) the amount of that total paid by him on or before the relevant date and
not refunded or repaid to him on or before the relevant date.


Income Tax 545
Ascertainment of Sarawak credit
82. (1) There shall be ascertained with respect to the total amount of the old tax
paid by a person as ascertained under paragraph 81 the Sarawak credit in accordance
with the following subparagraphs.
(2) In any case to which paragraph 81 applies, the Sarawak credit of a person
shall be so much of the profits tax paid by him for the year of assessment 1967 as
bears the same proportion to that profits tax as the assessable profits for the
overlapping period bears to the aggregate of the assessable profits from each source
of his for that year reduced by the amount of any loss incurred by him which would
be set off against those assessable profits under section 28 of the Sarawak Ordinance
for the year of assessment 1967.
(3) In the application of subparagraph (2) to the trustees of a trust, the reference
therein to profits tax paid for the year of assessment 1967 shall be taken to be a
reference to so much of that profits tax paid by the trustees for that year as bears the
same proportion to that profits tax as the aggregate of the assessable profits from
each source of the trustees for that year, reduced first by the amount of any loss
incurred by the trustees which would be set-off against those assessable profits under
section 28 of the Sarawak Ordinance for the year of assessment 1967 and thereafter
by so much thereof as falls to be treated as assessable profits for that year of a
beneficiary or beneficiaries of the trust, bears to that aggregate reduced by the
amount of any such loss for that year.
(4) In this paragraph—
“assessable profits for the overlapping period”, in relation to a person, means so
much of the aggregate of the assessable profits from each source of that person under
the Sarawak Ordinance for a year of assessment under that Ordinance, reduced by
the amount of any loss incurred by him which would be set-off against those
assessable profits under section 28 of the Sarawak Ordinance, as bears the same
proportion to that aggregate as so reduced as the aggregate number of days of the
overlapping period in relation to each source bears to the aggregate of the number of
days of the basis period in relation to each source under that Ordinance for that year
of assessment;
“overlapping period” means that part of the basis period under the Sarawak
Ordinance in relation to a source for the year of assessment 1967 which overlaps the
basis period in relation to that source for a year of assessment under this Act.
Events in which Sarawak credit is payable to an individual
83. Subject to paragraph 92, the Sarawak credit of an individual shall be payable
upon the date of the occurrence of such one of the following events as first occurs in
relation to him:


(a) on his satisfying the Director General that he had attained the age of
fifty-five years prior to 1 January 1968;
(b) on his death at any time after 31 December 1967;
(c) on his attaining the age of fifty-five years after 31 December 1967;
(d) on his departure from Malaysia, if he is not a citizen and if he
satisfies the Director General as to the matters set out in paragraph
84;
(e) if he was not resident in the basis year (being the year in which he
ceases to have income, other than dividends, derived from Malaysia
or a year subsequent thereto) for a year of assessment and is not a
citizen, on his satisfying the Director General that he is not likely to
have any income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in
any of the two years following that basis year;
(f) on his satisfying the Director General that he was not entitled to
payment of the Sarawak credit prior to 1 January 1988;
(g) on his satisfying the Director General that he was prevented by
serious disability from being gainfully employed for a period of not
less than twelve months and during that period he did not have any
source of income; or
(h) on his satisfying the Director General that he is in receipt of a
pension derived from Malaysia and that he does not have and is not
likely to have any other source of income:
Provided that subsubparagraph (d) shall not apply to the individual if at the time
of his departure from Malaysia he has any source (being a source the income from
which is wholly or partly derived from Malaysia) other than—
(i) a source from which dividends arise;
(ii) a source from which interest arises;
(iii) a source consisting of a pension derived from Malaysia; or
(iv) a source consisting of an employment which will cease upon
the expiration of a period of leave which commences on his
departure or at the end of a period of travel which
commences on his departure.


Income Tax 547
Matters as to which the Director General is to be satisfied for the purposes of
paragraph 83
84. For the purposes of subsubparagraph 83(d), an individual is required to satisfy
the Director General that the individual—
(a) has not at the date of his departure from Malaysia obtained a
Malaysian entry or re-entry permit or other like document;
(b) has not at that date under any written law any right of entry or re-
entry into Malaysia; and
(c) is not likely to be resident in any of the basis years for the five years
of assessment commencing with the year of assessment which
follows the year of assessment in the basis year for which the
departure took place.
Events in which Sarawak credit is payable to a company
85. (1) Subject to paragraph 92, the Sarawak credit of a company shall be
payable upon the date of the occurrence of such one of the following events as first
occurs in relation to the company, that is to say, on the dissolution of the company
after 31 December 1967, or on its satisfying the Director General that it has not gone
into dissolution before 1 January 1988, or, in the case of a company which ceases to
have income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in the basis year for a
year of assessment, on its satisfying the Director General that it was not resident for
that basis year or for a year subsequent thereto and that it is not likely to have any
income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in any of the two years
following that basis year or, as the case may be, that subsequent year:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply on the dissolution of a particular
company after 31 December 1967, if at or about the time of the dissolution any of
the assets of that particular company available for distribution to its members are
transferred—
(a) to a company which together with that particular company is in the
same group;
(b) to a company more than fifty per cent of the shares of which are
held by members of that particular company; or
(c) to the members of that particular company or to a person or persons
having control of that particular company within the meaning of
section 139.


(2) Where the proviso to subparagraph (1) applies on the transfer of a company's
assets, the Sarawak credit to which, but for that proviso, the company would have
been entitled shall be paid in accordance with the following subparagraphs.
(3) Subject to subparagraph (4)—
(a) where all the assets of a company are transferred to the members of
the company or to persons having control of the company within the
meaning of section 139, the Sarawak credit of the company shall be
apportioned among them in the proportion in which they held as
beneficial owners the ordinary share capital of the company at the
date of its dissolution (“ordinary share capital” here having the same
meaning as in the definition of “director” in subsection 2(1)), or, in
the case of persons having such control, in the proportion in which
they held their controlling interest, and shall be paid to each of them
on the relevant date as if the amount apportioned to each were a
Sarawak credit of his: and
(b) where all the assets of a company are transferred to a single person
having such control, the Sarawak credit of the company shall be
regarded as his and shall be paid to him on the relevant date.
(4) Where a member or person to whom a Sarawak credit (or any portion thereof)
is to be paid under subparagraph (3) is a company, the amount to be paid shall be
treated as a Sarawak credit of the company and subparagraph (1) shall apply with
respect to the payment of that credit.
(5) Where subparagraph (3) does not apply, the Sarawak credit of a company
shall be treated as a Sarawak credit of the transferee and subparagraph (1) shall apply
with respect to the payment of that credit.
(6) In a case where there are two or more transfers (other than transfers to
members of the company or to a person or persons having control of the company
within the meaning of section 139) to which the proviso to subparagraph (1) applies,
subparagraph (5) shall be applied by making such apportionment of the Sarawak
credit among the transferees as the Director General considers to be reasonably
necessary in order to give proper effect to subparagraph (5) in the circumstances.
Sarawak credit payable to company before dissolution in certain cases
86. Where the Director General is satisfied that the dissolution of a company is
imminent and that the company will be entitled on its dissolution to the Sarawak credit,
he may make the amount of the Sarawak credit available to the liquidator of the
company; and, if the company is not dissolved within three months (or such longer
period as the Director General may consider reasonable in the circumstances) after the


Income Tax 549
making available of that amount to the liquidator, it shall be the duty of the liquidator
to return that amount to the Director General upon being called upon to do so.
Trustees and executors
87. Subject to paragraph 92, the Sarawak credit of the trustees of a trust or the
executors of the estate of a deceased person shall be payable—
(a) on the termination of the trust or on the ascertainment of the residue
of the estate of the deceased person, as the case may be;
(b) on their satisfying the Director General that the trust has not
been terminated (or, as the case may be, the residue
ascertained) before 1 January 1988; or
(c) where the trust body ceases, or the executors cease, to have income
(other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in the basis year for a
year of assessment, on their satisfying the Director General that the
trust body was not, or the executors were not, resident for that basis
year or a year subsequent thereto, and that the trust body is not, or
the executors are not, likely to have any income (other than
dividends) derived from Malaysia in any of the two years following
that basis year or, as the case may be, that subsequent year.
Provisions applicable where paragraphs 83 to 87 do not apply
88. Subject to paragraph 92, the Sarawak credit of a person to whom none of
paragraphs 83 to 87 applies shall be payable—
(a) on application to the Director General in the year of assessment
1988; or
(b) on application to the Director General before that year, if the
Director General is satisfied that there are circumstances similar to
those in which a company would be entitled to payment of the
Sarawak credit before that year.
Married persons: general
89. Where section 47A of the Sarawak Ordinance applies to a married woman and
her husband for the year of assessment 1967, then, in the application of the foregoing
paragraphs of this Part to the husband—
(a) a source of hers shall be taken to be a source of his;


(b) any reference to assessable profits or loss in relation to him shall be
taken to include a reference to any assessable profits or loss of hers
from a source so taken to be his source;
(c) any old tax paid by her for the year of assessment 1967 shall be
treated as paid by him.
Married persons: disposal of wife’s credit
90. Where—
(a) a marriage took place before 31 December 1967, but section 47A of
the Sarawak Ordinance did not apply to the wife of that marriage
and her husband for any year of assessment under the Sarawak
Ordinance; or
(b) a marriage takes place after 31 December 1967,
the wife of that marriage shall not be entitled to any Sarawak credit to which she
would otherwise have been entitled, and any such credit shall be payable to the
husband of that marriage as if it were a credit ascertained as regards him under
paragraphs 81 and 82 or under paragraph 85.
Married persons: modification of paragraphs 89 and 90
91. In any case where paragraph 89 or 90 applies to the husband and wife of a
marriage—
(a) subsubparagraph 83(d) shall be so modified as to require the
husband to satisfy the Director General as to the matters set out in
paragraph 84 not only in respect of himself but also in respect of
that wife, or, if paragraph 84 is not applicable to her, as to the
matters set out in subsubparagraph 83(e) in respect of that wife;
(b) subsubparagraph 83(e) shall be so modified as to require the
husband to satisfy the Director General as to the matters set out
therein not only in respect of himself but also in respect of that wife,
or, where subsubparagraph 83(e) is not applicable to her, as to the
matters set out in paragraph 84 in respect of that wife.
Power to set-off Sarawak credit against tax payable
92. Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs of this Part, where any person
becomes entitled to a Sarawak credit in any calendar year, the Director General may


Income Tax 551
withhold payment thereof for the purposes of setting off the amount thereof against
any tax or previous tax payable by that person.
Certain income to be disregarded
93. (1) Where in the calendar year 1967 a person ceased to possess a source the
income from which is chargeable to profits tax under the Sarawak Ordinance, then,
if by reference to income from that source up to the date of cessation an assessment
has been made under the Sarawak Ordinance for the year of assessment 1968 under
that Ordinance, the income from that source included in that assessment shall be
disregarded for the purposes of this Act unless that assessment falls to be amended
for any reason on or after 1 January 1968.
(2) Where in the calendar year 1967 a person ceased to possess a source the
income from which is chargeable to salaries tax under the Sarawak Ordinance for
that year of assessment, then, if—
(a) that person does not have income from any other source for the basis
period in relation to any such other source for the year of
assessment 1968; and
(b) subparagraph (1) does not apply to him,
paragraph 80 shall not apply to that person and to the income from that source; and
where this subparagraph applies to a person his income from that source which is
chargeable to salaries tax under that Ordinance for the year of assessment 1967 shall
be disregarded for the purposes of this Act.
(3) Where paragraph 80 applies to a person and by the operation of paragraph 62
any income of a person from a source chargeable to salaries tax under the Sarawak
Ordinance falls to be treated as gross income for the pre-basis period for a pre-year of
assessment, paragraph 62 shall be so modified in its application to that person and that
income to treat that income as being income for the year of assessment under the Sarawak
Ordinance which coincides with that pre-basis period.
Allowance for industrial building under Sarawak Ordinance to continue
94. In the case of a building which is an industrial building under the Sarawak
Ordinance, the rate at which annual allowances were given in respect of that
industrial building under the Sarawak Ordinance shall continue to apply to that
building, and the allowances to which a person is entitled by virtue of paragraph 6 of
the Fifth Schedule to the Sarawak Ordinance shall be given for the remainder of the
years for which that allowance would have been given but for the repeal of that
Ordinance instead of any allowance to which that person might otherwise be entitled
under this Act.


PART IV
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
Application and power of remission
95. (1) This Part shall apply only to Peninsular Malaysia.
(2) Any tax paid or payable by virtue of this Part may be remitted by the Director
General on grounds of undue hardship; and section 129 shall apply in relation to any
tax so remitted as it applies in relation to tax remitted under that section.
Interpretation
96. In this Part—
“old tax” means income tax (excluding any tax deemed to be income tax under the
West Malaysian Ordinance) imposed under the West Malaysian Ordinance;
“relevant date”, in relation to any person, means the date on which the appropriate
event mentioned in paragraphs 107 to 113 which gives him entitlement to payment
of the West Malaysian credit occurs;
“statutory income”, in relation to a source and a year of assessment under the West
Malaysian Ordinance, means the amount of the income from that source for the basis
period under the West Malaysian Ordinance in relation to that source for a year of
assessment under that Ordinance increased by any balancing charge falling to be
made in relation to that source for that year and reduced by any allowance falling to
be made for that year under sections 16 to 22A of that Ordinance in relation to that
source;
“West Malaysian credit” means the amount ascertained under paragraph 102;
“year of assessment 1967” means the year of assessment 1967 under the West
Malaysian Ordinance.
No statutory income in certain cases
97. Where a person in the calendar year 1967 commenced to carry on a business or
commenced to exercise an employment or commenced to derive income from a
source other than a business or an employment (being a source of a kind to which
subsection 31(6) of the West Malaysian Ordinance would, but for this paragraph,
have applied for the year of assessment 1967), he shall be deemed not to have any
statutory income from that source for the year of assessment 1967.


Income Tax 553
Provisions for certain cases where subsection 31(5) or (7) of West Malaysian
Ordinance would have been applicable
98. (1) Subject to paragraph 99, where a person in the calendar year 1965 or 1966
commenced to carry on a business or commenced to exercise an employment or
commenced to derive income from a source of the kind referred to in paragraph 97,
the following subparagraphs shall apply if subsection 31(5) or (7) of the West
Malaysian Ordinance would, but for its repeal, have applied in relation to any such
source for the year of assessment 1968 under that Ordinance and the year of
assessment 1967.
(2) With respect to the year of assessment 1967, the calendar year 1967 shall be
taken to be the basis period in relation to any such source for that year of assessment,
if the income for that basis period is greater than what would, but for this paragraph,
have been the basis period under the West Malaysian Ordinance for that year of
assessment, in relation to that source.
(3) With respect to the year of assessment 1968, the calendar year 1968 shall be
taken to be the basis period for that year of assessment, in relation to any such source.
(4) With respect to the year of assessment 1969, the person in question shall be
deemed not to have statutory income from any source of the kind in question.
Paragraph 98 not to apply in certain cases
99. Paragraph 98 shall not apply in relation to a person and a source if—
(a) there in an acquisition (as defined in paragraph 105) of that source;
or
(b) that source being a source the income from which falls within a
particular paragraph of section 4, there is an acquisition by him of a
new source (the income from which falls under that paragraph of
section 4) prior to 1 January 1970, and the Director General does
not, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, direct that
this paragraph shall not apply,
and all such assessments or additional assessments or repayments of tax shall be
made as may be necessary in consequence of this paragraph.
Tax chargeable for year of assessment 1969
100. (1) Notwithstanding subparagraph 98(4), for the purposes of this paragraph
the statutory income of a person from a source for the year of assessment 1968 (being
a source in relation to which the calendar year 1968 is to be taken to be the basis


period for that year of assessment) shall be taken into account in ascertaining the
chargeable income of that person for the year of assessment 1969 as if that statutory
income were statutory income of his from that source for the year of assessment 1969
and there shall be ascertained the tax chargeable on the chargeable income so
ascertained for the year of assessment 1969.
(2) In the case of a person to whom subparagraph (1) applies, the tax chargeable
for the year of assessment 1969 on the chargeable income (ascertained without having
regard to subparagraph (1)) for that year shall be taken to be so much of the tax
chargeable as ascertained under subparagraph (1) as bears to the tax so ascertained the
same proportion as the total income of that person for that year ascertained without
having regard to subparagraph (1) bears to the total income of that person for that year
ascertained by having regard to that subparagraph.
Ascertainment of old tax payable by a person
101. (1) For the purposes of this Part, there shall be ascertained—
(a) the total amount of all old tax payable by a person, whether assessed
under one or more assessments, for the year of assessment 1967,
that total being computed after giving any relief due to him for that
year, on or before the relevant date, by virtue of section 44 or 46 of
the West Malaysian Ordinance; and
(b) the amount of that total paid by him on or before the relevant date
and not refunded or repaid to him on or before the relevant date.
(2) In ascertaining under subparagraph (1) the total amount of all old tax payable
by a person for the year of assessment 1967 and the amount of that total paid by him,
any old tax payable by reason of subparagraph 98(2) for that year and the amount of
old tax paid in respect thereof shall be disregarded.
Ascertainment of West Malaysian credit
102. (1) Subject to paragraphs 103 and 104 with respect to the amount of the
old tax paid by a person as ascertained under paragraph 101, there shall be
ascertained an amount (in this Part referred to as the West Malaysian credit) which
bears the same proportion to the amount so paid as the total amount of his statutory
income bears to the assessable income of that person for the year of assessment
1967.
(2) In the application of subparagraph (1) to the trustees of a trust, the reference
therein to old tax paid for the year of assessment 1967 shall be taken to be a reference
to so much of that old tax as the aggregate of the statutory income of the trust body
from all sources for that year reduced first by any amount falling to be deducted


Income Tax 555
under subsection 33(2) of the West Malaysian Ordinance in ascertaining the
assessable income of the trust body for that year and thereafter by so much of that
aggregate (as so reduced) as falls to be treated as statutory income for that year of a
beneficiary or beneficiaries of the trust, bears to the assessable income of the trust
body for that year.
(3) In this paragraph “total amount of his statutory income” means the aggregate
of his statutory income for the year of assessment 1967 from each source of income
of a kind to which subsection 31(5) or (7) of the West Malaysian Ordinance would
have applied (but for its repeal) at some time subsequent to that year, less any amount
falling to be deducted under subsection 33(2) of that Ordinance in ascertaining the
assessable income for that year.
Exclusion and inclusion of certain income for purposes of paragraph 102
103. For the purposes of paragraph 102, in ascertaining in relation to a person the
total amount of his statutory income as therein mentioned—
(a) there shall be excluded—
(i) statutory income of that person from a source to which
paragraph 97 or 98 applies;
(ii) income of his received in West Malaysia from outside West
Malaysia in respect of which there is any statutory income
of his for the year of assessment 1967, if he is not ordinarily
resident for the basis year for the year of assessment 1968;
and
(b) there shall be included, if paragraph 104 is applicable to him, the
amount of his statutory income from any source therein referred to
for the year of assessment 1967.
Provisions consequent upon acquisition of source
104. Where the circumstances are such that a person has an amount of statutory
income from a source (in this paragraph referred to as the old source) of a kind to
which subsection 31(5) or (7) of the West Malaysian Ordinance has applied (or, but
for this paragraph, would have applied) for both the year of assessment 1967 and the
preceding year of assessment under the West Malaysian Ordinance, then, if—
(a) there is an acquisition of the old source on or after 15 June 1967; or
(b) the old source being a source the income from which falls within
any paragraph of subsection 10(1) of the West Malaysian


Ordinance, there is an acquisition by him of a new source (the
income from which falls or would have fallen under that paragraph
of the West Malaysian Ordinance but for its repeal) prior to 1
January 1969, and the Director General does not, having regard to
all the circumstances of the case, direct that this paragraph shall not
apply,
subsection 31(1) or (2), as the case may be, of the West Malaysian Ordinance shall
apply to him in relation to the old source for both those years, and all such
assessments or additional assessments or repayments of old tax under that Ordinance
(or, if subsection 31(5) or (7) has been applied to him in relation to the old source,
all such assessments or additional assessments or repayments of old tax under that
Ordinance) shall be made as may be necessary in consequence of this subparagraph.
Meaning of “acquisition”
105. In subsubparagraph 99(a) and in subsubparagraph 104(a) “acquisition” means
acquisition of a source—
(a) in the case of a particular company—
(i) by a company in the same group;
(ii) by a company the shareholders of which hold or have held
more than fifty per cent of the shares of that particular
company; or
(iii) by a person having control of that particular company;
(b) in the case of an individual—
(i) by a relative of his (“relative” here and in
subsubparagraph (c)(iii) having the same meaning as in
section 65);
(ii) by a partnership of which he has, or he and associates of his
have, control (“associates” and “control” here having the
same meaning as in section 139 and paragraph 38 of
Schedule 3 respectively);
(iii) by a company of which he has control; or
(iv) by a partner of his in any other business, otherwise than for
valuable and adequate consideration;
(c) in the case of a source of a partnership—


Income Tax 557
(i) by a partner of the partnership;
(ii) by another partnership of which some or all of the partners of
the first partnership are partners; or
(iii) by a partnership the partners of which are relatives of the
partners of the first-mentioned partnership, otherwise than
for valuable and adequate consideration; and
(d) in any other case, where the circumstances are similar to those in
which, if the person effecting the acquisition was a company, there
would be an acquisition.
Additional provisions where subsubparagraph 104(a) applies
106. Where subsubparagraph 104(a) applies to a person and an old source, then, if
that source is the only source of his in 1967 or if all sources of his ceased in 1967,
the West Malaysian credit to the payment of which he would otherwise be entitled
under this Part shall be payable to the person who acquired that old source at the
relevant date in relation to that last-mentioned person and, where an old source was
acquired by more than one person or two or more old sources were acquired by
different persons, that credit shall be apportioned between the acquirers in such
proportion as the Director General having regard to the circumstances considers just
and reasonable and shall be payable to each of them on the relevant date as if the
amount apportioned to each were a West Malaysian credit ascertained as regards
him.
Events in which West Malaysian credit is payable to individual
107. Subject to paragraph 117, the West Malaysian credit of an individual shall
be payable upon the date of the occurrence of such one of the following events as
first occurs in relation to him:
(a) on his satisfying the Director General that he had attained the age of
fifty-five years prior to 1 January 1968;
(b) on his death at any time after 31 December 1967;
(c) on his attaining the age of fifty-five years after 31 December 1967;
(d) on his departure from Malaysia, if he is not a citizen and if he
satisfies the Director General as to the matters set out in paragraph
108;


(e) if he was not resident in the basis year (being a year in which he
ceases to have income, other than dividends, derived from Malaysia
or a year subsequent thereto) for a year of assessment and is not a
citizen, on his satisfying the Director General that he is not likely to
have any income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in
any of the two years following that basis year;
(f) on his satisfying the Director General that he was not entitled to
payment of the West Malaysian credit prior to 1 January 1988;
(g) on his satisfying the Director General that he was prevented by
serious disability from being gainfully employed for a period of not
less than twelve months and during that period he did not have any
source of income; or
(h) on his satisfying the Director General that he is in receipt of a
pension derived from Malaysia and that he does not have and is not
likely to have any other source of income:
Provided that subparagraph (d) shall not apply to the individual if at the time of
his departure from Malaysia he has any source (being a source the income from
which is wholly or partly derived from Malaysia) other than—
(i) a source from which dividends arise;
(ii) a source from which interest arises;
(iii) a source consisting of a pension derived from Malaysia; or
(iv) a source consisting of an employment which will cease upon
the expiration of a period of leave which commences on his
departure or at the end of a period of travel which
commences on his departure.
Matters as to which the Director General is to be satisfied for the purposes of
subsubparagraph 107(d)
108. For the purposes of subsubparagraph 107(d), an individual is required to
satisfy the Director General that the individual—
(a) has not at the date of his departure from Malaysia obtained a
Malaysian entry or re-entry permit or other like document;
(b) has not at that date under any written law any right of entry or re-
entry into Malaysia; and


Income Tax 559
(c) is not likely to be resident for any of the basis years for the five years
of assessment commencing with the year of assessment which
follows the year of assessment in the basis year for which the
departure took place.
Events in which West Malaysian credit is payable to company
109. (1) Subject to paragraph 117, the West Malaysian credit of a company shall
be payable upon the date of the occurrence of such one of the following events as
first occurs in relation to the company, that is to say, on the dissolution of the
company after 31 December 1967 or on its satisfying the Director General that it has
not gone into dissolution before 1 January 1988 or in the case of a company which
ceases to have income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in the basis year
for a year of assessment, on its satisfying the Director General that it was not resident
for that basis year or for a year subsequent thereto and that it is not likely to have any
income (other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in any of the two years
following that basis year or, as the case may be, that subsequent year:
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply on the dissolution of a particular
company after 31 December 1967, if at or about the time of the dissolution any of
the assets of that particular company available for distribution to its members are
transferred—
(a) to a company which together with that particular company is a
member of the same group;
(b) to a company more than fifty per cent of the shares of which are
held by members of that particular company; or
(c) to the members of that particular company or to a person or persons
having control of that particular company within the meaning of
section 139.
(2) Where the proviso to subparagraph (1) applies on the transfer of a company’s
assets, the West Malaysian credit to which, but for that proviso, the company would
have been entitled shall be paid in accordance with the following subparagraphs.
(3) Subject to subparagraph (4)—
(a) where all the assets of a company are transferred to the members of
the company or to persons having control of the company within the
meaning of section 139, the West Malaysian credit of the company
shall be apportioned among them in the proportion in which they
held as beneficial owners the ordinary share capital of the company
at the date of its dissolution (“ordinary share capital” here having
the same meaning as in the definition of “director” in


subsection 2(1)) or, in the case of persons having such control, in
the proportion in which they held their controlling interest, and shall
be paid to each of them on the relevant date as if the amount
apportioned to each were a West Malaysian credit of his;
(b) where all the assets of a company are transferred to a single person
having such control, the West Malaysian credit of the company shall
be regarded as his and shall be paid to him on the relevant date.
(4) Where a member or person to whom a West Malaysian credit (or any portion
thereof) is to be paid under subparagraph (3) is a company, the amount to be paid
shall be treated as a West Malaysian credit of the company and subparagraph (1)
shall apply with respect to the payment of that credit.
(5) Where subparagraph (3) does not apply, the West Malaysian credit of the
company shall be treated as a West Malaysian credit of the transferee and
subparagraph (1) shall apply with respect to the payment of that credit.
(6) In a case where there are two or more transfers (other than transfers to
members of the company or to a person or persons having control of the company
within the meaning of section 139) to which the proviso to subparagraph (1) applies,
subparagraph (5) shall be applied by making such apportionment of the West
Malaysian credit among the transferees as the Director General considers to be
reasonably necessary in order to give proper effect to subparagraph (5) in the
circumstances.
West Malaysian credit payable to company before dissolution in certain cases
110. Subject to paragraph 117, where the Director General is satisfied that the
dissolution of a company is imminent and that the company will be entitled on its
dissolution to the West Malaysian credit, he may make the amount of the West
Malaysian credit available to the liquidator of the company; and, if the company is
not dissolved within three months (or such longer period as the Director General may
consider reasonable in the circumstances) after the making available of that amount
to the liquidator, it shall be the duty of the liquidator to return that amount to the
Director General upon being called upon to do so.
Trustees and executors
111. Subject to paragraph 117, the West Malaysian credit of the trustee of a trust
or the executors of the estate of a deceased person shall be payable—
(a) on the termination of the trust or on the ascertainment of the residue
of the estate of the deceased person, as the case may be;


Income Tax 561
(b) on their satisfying the Director General that the trust has not been
terminated (or, as the case may be, the residue ascertained)
before 1 January 1988; or
(c) where the trust body ceases, or the executors cease, to have income
(other than dividends) derived from Malaysia in the basis year for a
year of assessment, on their satisfying the Director General that the
trust body was not, or the executors were not, resident for that basis
year or a year subsequent thereto and that the trust body is not, or
the executors are not, likely to have any income (other than
dividends) derived from Malaysia in any of the two years following
that basis year or, as the case may be, that subsequent year.
Hindu joint families
112. Subsubparagraphs 107(a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) shall apply in relation to a Hindu
joint family as if those subparagraphs referred to the family’s manager or karta.
Provisions applicable where paragraphs 107 to 112 do not apply
113. Subject to paragraph 117, the West Malaysian credit of a person to whom none
of paragraphs 107 to 112 applies shall be payable—
(a) on application to the Director General in the year of assessment 1988;
or
(b) on application to the Director General before that year if the
Director General is satisfied that there are circumstances similar to
those in which a company would be entitled to the payment of the
West Malaysian credit before that year.
Married persons: general
114. Where section 47 of the West Malaysian Ordinance applies to a married
woman and her husband for the year of assessment 1967, then, in the application of
the foregoing paragraphs of this Part to the husband—
(a) any reference to a source shall be taken to include a reference to a
source of hers as if it were a source of his;
(b) any reference to statutory income in relation to him shall be taken
to include a reference to any statutory income of hers from a source
so included as his source;


(c) any reference to an acquisition by him shall be taken to include an
acquisition by her; and
(d) any old tax paid by her for the year of assessment 1967 shall be
treated as paid by him.
Married persons: disposals of wife’s credit
115. Where a marriage takes place after 31 December 1967, the wife of that marriage
shall not be entitled to any West Malaysian credit to which she would otherwise have
been entitled, and any such credit shall be payable to the husband of that marriage as if it
were a credit ascertained as regards him under paragraphs 101 to 105 or under
paragraph 109.
Married persons: modification of paragraphs 107 and 108
116. In any case where paragraph 107 or 108 applies to the husband and wife of a
marriage—
(a) subsubparagraph 107(d) shall be so modified as to require the
husband to satisfy the Director General as to the matters set out in
paragraph 108 not only in respect of himself but also in respect of
that wife, or, if paragraph 108 is not applicable to her, as to the
matters set out in subsubparagraph 107(e) in respect of that wife;
(b) subsubparagraph 107(e) shall be so modified as to require the
husband to satisfy the Director General as to the matters set out
therein not only in respect of himself but also in respect of that wife,
or, where subsubparagraph 107(e) is not applicable to her, as to the
matters set out in paragraph 108 in respect of that wife.
Power to set off West Malaysian credit against tax payable
117. Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs of this Part, where any person
becomes entitled to a West Malaysian credit in any calendar year, the Director
General may withhold payment thereof for the purposes of setting off the amount
thereof against any tax or previous tax payable by that person.
Certain income to be disregarded
118. Subject to paragraph 104, where any person ceases to possess a source in the
calendar year 1967 (being a source to which subsection 31(5) or (7) of the West
Malaysian Ordinance is applicable for both the year of assessment 1967 and the


Income Tax 563
preceding year of assessment under that Ordinance), any income of that person from
that source shall be disregarded for the purposes of this Act.


Act 53
INCOME TAX ACT 1967
LIST OF AMENDMENTS
Amending law Short title In force from
Act A77/1967 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 14-12-1967
P.U. 144/1968 Income Tax (Transitional 14-12-1967
Provisions) Order 1968
Act A13 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Assessment year 1968 and
1969 subsequent years
2. Section 8— Assessment
year 1969 and subsequent
years
P.U. (B) 146/1969 Resolution under s. 127 (2) 04-07-1969
P.U. (A) 510/1969 Income Tax (Amendment to 12-12-1969
Schedule 6) Order 1969
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Emergency (Essential Powers) (Various dates as per
Ordinance No. 38, 1970 Schedule to the Ordinance)
Act A32 Income Tax (Amendment) Act Assessment year 1971 and
1971 subsequent years
Act A60 Income Tax (Amendment) (Various date as per Schedule
(No. 2) Act 1971 to the Act)
Act A98 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 01-01-1972
Act A108 Income Tax (Amendment) 04-04-1972
(No. 2) Act 1972


Income Tax 565
Amending law Short title In force from
Act A158 Income Tax (Amendment) Act Assessment year 1973 and
1973 subsequent years except
expressly provided
P.U. (A) 266/1974 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1973 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (A) 267/1974 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1968 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (A) 328/1974 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1963 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
Act A225 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Sections 2 and 3—
1974 01-01-1974
2. Remaining provisions—
29-02-1974
Act A226 Income Tax (Amendment) Assessment year 1974 and
(No. 2) Act 1974 subsequent years except
expressly provided
Act A227 Income Tax (Amendment) Assessment year 1974 and
(No. 3) Act 1974 subsequent years
Act A273 Income Tax (Amendment) Act Assessment year 1975 and
1975 subsequent years except
section 6 which shall have
effect for the year of
assessment 1974
Act 160 Malaysian Currency (Ringgit) 29-08-1975
Act 1975
Act A344 Income Tax (Amendment) Act Assessment year 1976 and
1976 subsequent years
P.U. (B) 50/1976 Amendment to Part I of Assessment year 1976 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (B) 303/1976 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1976 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years


Amending law Short title In force from
P.U. (B) 186/1977 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1973 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (B) 187/1977 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1968 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (B) 363/1977 Amendment to Part II of 01-12-1974
Schedule 6
P.U. (B) 364/1977 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1973
Schedule 6
P.U. (B) 365/1977 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1977
Schedule 6
Act A380 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Paragraph 2(b) and
1977 section 8—01-01-1977
2. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1977 and
subsequent years
Act A429 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Assessment year 1978
1978 and subsequent years
2. Section 2—01-01-1977
3. Paragraph 12(b)—
Assessment year 1977 and
subsequent years
Act A434 Subordinate Courts 01-07-1978
(Amendment) Act 1978
Act A451 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Assessment year 1979
1979 and subsequent years
2. Sections 2 and 4—
Assessment year 1973 and
subsequent years
3. Sections 10, 11, 12 and
14—01-01-1979


Income Tax 567
Amending law Short title In force from
4. Sections 15 and 18—
Assessment year 1980 and
subsequent years
P.U. (B) 421/1979 Amendment to Part I of Assessment year 1977 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (B) 422/1979 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1977 and
Schedule 6 subsequent years
P.U. (B) 423/1979 Amendment to Part II of Assessment year 1980
Schedule 6
Act A471 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Section 3—Assessment
1980 year 1978 and subsequent
years
2. Section 16—Assessment
year 1968 and subsequent
years
3. Section 14—Assessment
year 1980 and subsequent
years
4. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1980 and
subsequent years
Act 241 Finance Act 1981 1. Section 8, paragraph
10(b), sections 11, 12, 16 and
paragraph 18(a)—
Assessment year 1980 and
subsequent years
2. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1981 and
subsequent years
P.U. (A) 161/1981 Revision of Laws (Income Tax 05-06-1981
Act 1967) Order 1981
Act 264 Finance Act 1982 1. Section 10—01-01-1982


Amending law Short title In force from
2. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1982 and
subsequent years
Act 274 Finance (No. 2) Act 1982 1. Sections 4, 5, 6 and 14—
Assessment year 1984 and
subsequent years
2. Sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11
and 12—01-01-1983
3. Paragraph 15(a)—22-10-
4. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1983 and
subsequent years
Act 293 Finance Act 1983 1. Sections 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and
22—21-10-1983
2. Section 7—01-01-1984
3. Sections 12, 13 and 14—
Assessment year 1984 and
subsequent years
4. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1984 and
subsequent years
Act 309 Finance Act 1984 1. Sections 16 and 18—
19-10-1984
2. Sections 5, 8 and 14—
21-10-1983
3. Sections 4(b), section 13,
paragraphs 15(b) and 19(g)
—Assessment year 1984 and
subsequent years
4. Section 7—19-10-1984


Income Tax 569
Amending law Short title In force from
5. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1985 and
subsequent years
Act 315 Finance Act 1985 Assessment year 1985 and
subsequent years
Act 323 Finance Act (No. 2) 1985 1. Paragraph 4(d)—
Assessment year 1984 and
subsequent years
2. Section 23—Assessment
year 1985 and subsequent
years
3. Paragraphs 6(a), 6(b),
7(c) and section 22—
Assessment year 1987 and
subsequent years
4. Paragraphs 4(a), 4(b),
sections 8, 17 and 19—25-10-
5. Section 24(b)—
25-10-1986
6. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1986 and
subsequent years
Act A643 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Section 7—01-01-1986
2. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1987 and
subsequent years
Act 328 Finance Act 1986 1. Sections 5, 7 and 12—
21-10-1983
2. Sections 4, 6, 10, 11, 13,
15, and 18—24-10-1986
3. Section 8—01-01-1986


Amending law Short title In force from
4. Section 16—Assessment
year 1984
5. Paragraph 19(h)—
Assessment year 1988 and
subsequent years
6. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1987 and
subsequent years;
Provided that paragraphs
9(c) and (e) shall cease to
have effect from—
(i) year of assessment 1988
where the gross premiums
receivable by the insurer
during the basis period for
year of assessment 1986 on
account of all Malaysian life
policies in force at the end of
that period, amount to fifty
million ringgit or more;
(ii) year of assessment 1990
where the gross premiums
receivable by the insurer
during the basis period for
year of assessment 1986 on
account of all Malaysian life
policies in force at the end of
that period, amount to ten
million ringgit or more but
less then fifty million ringgit;
and
(iii) year of assessment 1992
where the gross premiums
receivable by the insurer
during the basis period for
year of assessment 1986 on
account of all Malaysian life
policies in force at the end of


Income Tax 571
Amending law Short title In force from
that period, is less than ten
million ringgit
Act 337 Finance Act 1987 1. Section 10—24-10-1986
2. Section 13—01-01-1989
3. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1988 and
subsequent years
Act 364 Finance Act 1988 1. Paragraphs 14(b) and
(e)—Assessment year 1990
and subsequent years
2. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1989 and
subsequent years
P.U.(A) 212/1989 Income Tax (Transitional Assessment year 1968
Provisions) Order 1989
Act 420 Finance Act 1990 1. Sections 7, 8 and 15—
Assessment year 1989 and
subsequent years
2. Section 13—01-01-1989
3. Section 16—Assessment
year 1991 and subsequent
years
4. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1990 and
subsequent years
P.U.(A) 266/1990 Income Tax (Transitional Assessment year 1968
Provisions) Order 1990
Act 421 Finance (No. 2) Act 1990 1. Sections 5 and 6—
Assessment year 1990 and
subsequent years


Amending law Short title In force from
2. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 1991 and
subsequent years
Act A774 Income Tax (Amendment) Act Assessment year 1991 and
1990 subsequent years
Act 451 Finance Act 1991 1. Chapter II except for
sections 7, 8, 10, paragraphs
11(a), 11(b), section 19,
paragraphs 20(b), sections
21, 23, 26, 27, paragraphs
28(d) and 28(e)—
Assessment year 1991 and
subsequent years
2. Section 19, paragraph
20(b), sections 23 and 27—
14-12-1990
3. Sections 7, 8, 10,
paragraphs 11(a), 11(b) and
section 26—Assessment year
1992 and subsequent years
4. Section 21, paragraphs
28(d) and 28(e)—01-10-1989
P.U.(A) 406/1991 Revision of Laws 01-11-1971
(Rectification) Order 1991
Act 476 Finance Act 1992 1. Chapter II except for
sections 6, 7, 11, 12 and
paragraph 18(a)—
Assessment year 1992 and
subsequent years
2. Sections 6, 11, 12, and
paragraph 18(a)—
Assessment year 1991 and
subsequent years
3. Section 7—01-01-1990


Income Tax 573
Amending law Short title In force from
Act 497 Finance Act 1993 1. Chapter II except for
section 4, paragraph 6(b) and
section 7—
Assessment year 1993 and
subsequent years
2. Section 4—Assessment
year 1994 and subsequent
years
3. Paragraph 6(b)—
Assessment year 1989
4. Section 7—30-10-1992
Act 513 Finance Act 1994 1. Chapter II except for
sections 4, 7, paragraphs
8(d), 10(a), sections 11, 12,
13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
23, 24, 25, paragraph 28(d)
and section 29—Assessment
year 1994 and subsequent
years
2. Section 4, paragraph
10(a) and section 11—
01-6-1991
3. Section 7, paragraph
8(d), sections 12, 14 and
29—01-01-1994
4. Section 13—01-01-1993
5. Paragraph 28(d)—
16-02-1993
6. Sections 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24 and 25—
25-02-1994


Amending law Short title In force from
Act 531 Finance Act 1995 1. Chapter II except for
section 6, paragraphs 19(c)
and 19(e)—Assessment year
1995 and subsequent years
2. Section 6 (except for
subparagraph 6(a)(i))—
Assessment year 1994 and
subsequent years
3. Subparagraph 6(a)(i)—
Assessment year 1991
4. Paragraphs 19(c) and
19(e)—28-10-1994
Act 544 Finance Act 1996 1. Chapter II except for
paragraphs 10(a),10(b),
11(a), 16(c) and section 17—
Assessment year 1996 and
subsequent years
2. Paragraphs 10(a), 10(b),
11(a), 11(b) and 16(c)—
Assessment year 1995 and
subsequent years
3. Section 17—Assessment
year 1997 and subsequent
years
Act A955 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 02-08-1996
Act 557 Finance Act 1997 1. Chapter II except for
paragraphs 4(a), 4(b), 19(a),
19(b), sections 5, 7, 15, 16,
17, 18, 20 and 21—
Assessment year 1997 and
subsequent years
2. Paragraphs 4(a), 19(b),
sections 16, 17 and 18—
25-10-1996


Income Tax 575
Amending law Short title In force from
3. Paragraphs 4(b) and
19(a), sections 5, 7, 15 and
21—01-01-1997
4. Section 20—02-08-1996
Act A998 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 01-08-1997
Act 578 Finance Act 1998 1. Chapter II except for
sections 7, 8, 10, 14, 15, 18,
paragraphs 21(d) and 21(g)—
Assessment year 1998 and
subsequent years
2. Sections 7, 8, 14, 15 and
paragraph 21(g)—
01-01-1999
3. Section 10—17-10-1997
4. Section 18—20-03-1998
5. Paragraph 21(d)—
Assessment year 1999 and
subsequent years
Act A1028 Tax Laws (Amendment) Act 1. Chapter I except section
1998 6–02-07-1998
2. Section 6—Assessment
year 1998 and subsequent
years
Act 591 Finance (No. 2) Act 1998 1. Chapter II except sections
4, 6, 10 and 13—Assessment
year 1999 and subsequent
years of assessment
2. Section 4—24-10-1998
3. Sections 6 and 10—
Assessment year 2000 and
subsequent years of
assessment


Amending law Short title In force from
4. Section 13—Assessment
year 1998 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act A1055 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Sections 2, 3, 5 and 6—
1999 01-01-2000
2. Sections 20, 21, 77 and
92—Assessment year 2000
in respect of the basis period
ending in the year 2000 and
subsequent years of
assessment
3. Section 4—Assessment
year 1999 and subsequent
years of assessment
4. Sections 7 to 16—
Assessment year 2000 in
respect of the basis period
ending in the year 1999
5. Section 17—01-01-2000
Act A1069 Income Tax (Amendment) 01-01-2000
(No. 2) Act 1999
1. Subsection 107C(3) of
section 12—Assessment year
2002 and subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 13, 14, 15 and
16—01-01-2000
3. Section 17—Assessment
year 2001
4. Remaining provisions—
Assessment year 2001 and
subsequent years of
assessment


Income Tax 577
Amending law Short title In force from
Act 600 Finance Act 2000 1. Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12
and 15—Assessment year
2000 in respect of the basis
period ending in the year
2000 (current year basis) and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 4, 9, 10 and
14—16-06-2000
3. Section 13—Assessment
year 2000 in respect of the
basis period ending in the
year 1999 (preceding year
basis) and subsequent years
of assessment
Act A1093 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Sections 2–11, 13–18 and
2000 21–Assessment year 2001
and subsequent years of
assessment
2. Section 12—Assessment
year 2000 in respect of the
basis period ending in the
year 2000 and subsequent
years of assessment
3. Section 16—Only for
assessment year 2000 in
respect of the basis period
ending in the year 2000
4. Sections 19, 20 and 22–
28—01-01-2001
Act 608 Finance (No.2) Act 2000 1. Sections 4-14 and
16-27—Assessment year
2001 and subsequent years of
assessment
2. Section 15—Assessment
year 1986 and subsequent
years of assessment


Amending law Short title In force from
Act 619 Finance Act 2002 1. Sections 4, 5, 7,
paragraphs 8(a), 8(b), 8(d),
8(e), 8(f), 8(g), 8(h), 8(i), 8(j),
8(l) and 8(m), section 9 and
paragraphs 10(a), 10(b) and
10(c)—Assessment year
2002 and subsequent years of
assessment
2. Paragraph 8(c)—01-01-
2000—Assessment year
2000 and subsequent year of
assessment
3. Paragraph 37F of
Schedule 3 as inserted by
paragraph 8(k)—Assessment
year 2002 and subsequent
years of assessment
4. Paragraphs 37G and 37H
of Schedule 3 as Inserted by
paragraph 8(k)—Assessment
year 2001 and subsequent
years
5. Paragraph 10(d)—
Assessment year 1998 and
subsequent years of
assessment
Act A1151 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Sections 2, 3 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
2002 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, paragraph 20(a),
subparagraph 21(b)(i),
subparagraphs 21(c)(i) and
(ii), sections 22 and 23,
paragraphs 24(b) and 25(a)
and subparagraph 25(b)(ii)—
Assessment year 2004 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Paragraphs 20(b) and (c),
paragraph 21(a),


Income Tax 579
Amending law Short title In force from
subparagraph 21(b)(ii) and
paragraph 21(d)—
Assessment year 2001 and
subsequent years of
assessment
3. Paragraph 24(a) and
subparagraph 25(b)(i)—
Assessment year 2002 and
subsequent years of
assessment
4. Section 26— Assessment
year 2004
5. Section 27— Assessment
year 2002
6. Sections 28, 29, 30 and
31—Assessment year 2003
P.U. (A) 338/2002 Revision of Laws 23-08-2002
(Rectification of Income Tax
Act 1967) Order 2002
Act 624 Finance (No. 2) Act 2002 1. Sections 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 16, 17, paragraph
19(a), sections 20, 21, 22, 23,
28 and 29—Assessment year
2003 and subsequent years of
assessment
2. Section 5—Assessment
year 2002 and subsequent
years of assessment
3. Sections 7, 18 and 24—
21-09-2002
4. Sections 14, 15 and 27
shall have effect on the
coming into operation of Act
624—27-12-2002


Amending law Short title In force from
5. Paragraph 19(b)—
Assessment year 2001 and
subsequent years of
assessment
6. Sections 25 and 26—
Assessment year 2000
(current year) and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 631 Finance Act 2003 1. Sections 4, 6, 8 and 16
and paragraph 19(b)—
Assessment year 2003 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 12 and 15—
Assessment year 2003
3. Sections 5, 7, 9, 11, 13,
14, 18 and 20—Assessment
year 2003 and subsequent
years of assessment
4. Section 10—
Assessment years 2003, 2004
and 2005
5. Paragraph 17(b)—
01-01-2001
6. Subparagraph 19(a)(i)—
13-09-2003
7. Subparagraph 19(a)(ii)—
Assessment year 2000
(current year) and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 639 Finance Act 2004 1. Sections 4, 5, 6, and
subparagraph 7(b)(ii) and
sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 23, 27,
28, 29, 30, 31 and 32—
Assessment year 2005 and


Income Tax 581
Amending law Short title In force from
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Paragraph 7(a)—
Assessment year 2001 and
subsequent years of
assessment
3. Subparagraph 7(b)(i) and
sections 20 and 22—
Assessment year 2001 and
subsequent years of
assessment
4. Sections 24, 25 and 26—
01-01-2005
5. Paragraph 33(a)—
Assessment year 2003 and
subsequent years of
assessment
6. Paragraph 33(b)—
11-09-2004
Act 644 Finance Act 2005 1. Sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 21, 22, 24, 32, 33, 34, 35,
36 and 37 have effect for the
year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 23 and 30—
01-01-2006
3. Section 25—01-10-2005
Act 661 Finance Act 2006 1. Sections 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19,
25, paragraph 30(a), section
31, paragraphs 32(a), (b), (c)
and (e) and section 33 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2007 and


Amending law Short title In force from
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Section 5, paragraph
24(a), sections 26, 27, 28, 29
and paragraph 30(b)—
01-01-2007
3. Section 18 has effect for
the year of assessment 2006
and subsequent years of
assessment
4. Section 20—01-01-2007
5. Sections 21, 22, 23,
paragraph 24(b), paragraph
32(d) and section 34—
02-09-2006
Act 683 Finance Act 2007 1. Sections 4, 5, 8,
paragraphs 10(a) and (d),
subparagraphs 12(a)(i) and
(iv) in respect of paragraph
46(1)(l) of the Income Tax
Act 1967, sections 14, 15, 17,
19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
29, 33, 34, paragraphs 36(a)
and (f) and sections 38, 39,
40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47,
48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55,
56 and 57 have effect for the
year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 6 and 22—
01-01-2008
3. Subparagraphs 12(a)(ii),
(iii) and (iv) in respect of
paragraph 46(1)(k) of the
Income Tax Act 1967, section
16 and paragraph 36(d) have
effect for the year of assessment


Income Tax 583
Amending law Short title In force from
2007 and subsequent years of
assessment
4. Sections 7, 9, 11 and 13
are deemed to have effect for
the year of assessment 2006
and subsequent years of
assessment
5. Section 28—01-08-2008
6. Section 32—21-02-2007
Act 693 Finance Act 2009 1. Paragraph 45(a) has
effect for the year of
assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 4, 6, 7, 11, 12,
13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 27, 29, 38,
paragraphs 42(a) and (b),
paragraphs 43(b), (c), (d), (e)
and (f), paragraph 45(b),
paragraphs 46(a), (c), (d), (f)
and (g) and subparagraphs
46(e)(i) and (ii) have effect
for the year of assessment
2009 and subsequent years of
assessment
3. Sections 8, 9, 26, 28, 30,
31, 33, 34, 35, 36, paragraph
43(a), section 44, paragraph
46(b) and sections 47, 48, 49
and 50—09-01-2009
4. Sections 5, 10, 15, 25, 37,
39, 40 and 41 and paragraph
42(d)—01-01-2009
5. Paragraph 42(c) has effect
from 1 January 2009 to 31
December 2011


Amending law Short title In force from
6. Subparagraph 46(e)(iii)
has effect for the year of
assessment 2009 and 2010
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum Corrigendum to the Income
Tax Act 1967 [Act 53]
reprinted in the year 2006 and
incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January
Act A1349 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Sections 2, 3 and 4 are
2009 deemed to have effect for the
years of assessment 2008,
2009 and 2010
2. Sections 5 and 6 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of
assessment
3. Section 7—01-07-2008
Act 702 Finance Act 2010 1. Sections 4 and 4A,
subparagraph 5(a)(i),
sections 6, 7, 14, 15 and 16
have effect for the year of
assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Subparagraphs 5(a)(ii),
(iii), (iv) and paragraph 5(b)
have effect for the years of
assessment 2010, 2011 and
3. Section 8 has effect for
the year ending 31 December
2009 and subsequent years
4. Sections 9, 11, 12 and
13—15-01-2010


Income Tax 585
Amending law Short title In force from
5. Section 10 has effect for
the year of assessment 2011
and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 719 Finance Act 2011 1. Subparagraphs 4(a)(ii), (iii)
and (iv) and paragraph 4(b) —
11-02-2010
2. Sections 5, 6, 8, paragraph
9(a), sections 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 16, 24 and 25 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of
assessment
3. Section 7 is deemed to
have effect from the year of
assessment 2010
4. Paragraphs 9(b), (c) and
(d) have effect from 1
January 2011 for the year of
assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of
assessment
5. Subparagraph 4(a)(i),
section 17, 18, 20, 21, 22 and
23 commence on the coming
into operation of this Act
6. Section 19 has effect for
the year of assessment 2012
and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 742 Finance Act 2012 1. Sections 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12,
21, and 22, paragraphs 23(a)
and (c), sections 24 and 25
have effect for the year of
assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of
assessment


Amending law Short title In force from
2. Section 5 comes into
operation from 1 January
2012 until 31 December 2016
3. Sections 8, 13, 15, 16,
17 and 19—01-01-2012
4. Section 10 comes into
operation from the year of
assessment 2012 until the
year of assessment 2021
5. Sections 14—10-02-2012
6. Section 20—30-01-2012
7. Paragraph 23(b) is deemed
to have effect from the year
of assessment 2011
Act A1429 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 23-06-2012
Act 755 Finance Act 2013 1. Subparagraphs 4(a)(i)
and (iii), paragraphs 4(b) and
(c), sections 7 and 23, and
paragraph 35(c) in relation to
business trust come into
operation on the coming into
operation of the
corresponding provisions of
the Capital Markets and
Services (Amendment) Act
2012 [Act A1437] relating to
business trust—28-12-2012
2. Subparagraph 4 (a)(ii),
sections 20 and 22, and
paragraph 35(a) come into
operation on the coming into
operation of this Act—11-01-
3. Subparagraphs 4(a)(iv),
(v) and (vi), sections 7, 8, 9,


Income Tax 587
Amending law Short title In force from
14, 15, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28 and
29, paragraphs 33(b) and (c),
and paragraphs 35(c), 35(f)
and 37(a) in relation to
limited liability partnership
come into operation on the
coming into operation of the
Limited Liability
Partnerships Act 2012
[Act 743]—26-12-2012
4. Subparagraph 4 (a)(vii),
sections 5,10,13,18,
paragraphs 33(a) and (d),
paragraphs 35(d) and (e),
paragraphs 38(a) , (b), (c),
(d), (e), (g), (h) and (i), and
sections 39 and 40 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2013 and
subsequent years of
assessment
5. Sections 6 and 30, and
paragraph 33(e)—
01-01-2013
6. Sections 11, 12, 16, 26,
31, 32 and 34, paragraph
35(b), section 36 and
paragraph 38(f)—01-01-2014
7. Section 17 has effect for
the years of assessment 2012,
2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and
8. Sections 19 and 21, and
paragraph 37(b) have effect
for the year of assessment
2012 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 761 Finance Act 2014 1. Sections 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,


Amending law Short title In force from
19, 21, 22, 25, 26 and 30 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 6, 20, 23, 24, 27,
28, 29, 31 and 32—
24-01-2014
P.U. (B) 47/2014 Corrigendum Corrigendum to the Income
Tax Act 1967 [Act 53]
reprinted in the year 2006 and
incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January
Act 764 Finance (No. 2) Act 2014 1. Sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
12 and 16, subparagraphs 20
(a)(i), (ii), (iii) and (v),
subsubparagraph
20(a)(iv)(B), paragraph
20(b), section 21, paragraphs
22(b) and (c), and section 23
have effect for the year of
assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 11, 13 and 14,
paragraph 15(a), sections 17,
18 and 19, subsubparagraph
20(a)(iv)(A) and paragraph
22(a)—01-01-2015
3. Paragraph 15(b)—
01-01-2015
Act 773 Finance Act 2015 1. Subparagraphs 4(a)(i) and
(ii), paragraphs 10(a), (b) and
(c) in respect of paragraphs
39(1) (o) and (p) of the
Income Tax Act 1967,
section 17, paragraphs 25(a)
and (e), paragraph 28(a) and


Income Tax 589
Amending law Short title In force from
section 29 have effect for the
year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and
11, paragraphs 12(a), (b), (c)
and (d) in respect of
paragraph 46(1)(n) of the
Income Tax Act 1967,
sections 13, 14, 22 and 24,
paragraphs 25 (b), (c) and (d),
paragraphs 25(b), (c) and (d),
paragraph 26(a), section 27
and paragraph 28(c) have
effect for the year of
assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of
assessment
3. Subparagraph 4(a)(iii),
paragraph 4(b), sections 15,
19, 20, 21, 23, and
paragraphs 26(b), (c) and (d),
and Part II—
31-12-2015
4. Paragraph 28(b) has effect
for the year of assessment
2016, 2017 and 2018
5. Paragraph 10(c) in respect
of paragraph 39(1)(q) of the
Income Tax Act 1967—
01-01-2016
6. Paragraph 12(d) in respect
of paragraph 46(1)(o) of the
Income Tax Act 1967, has
effect for the year of
assessment 2016 until the year
of assessment 2020


Amending law Short title In force from
7. Section 16 has effect for
the year ending 31 December
2016 and subsequent years
8. Section 18 has effect for
the year of assessment 2018
and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 785 Finance Act 2017 1. Sections 4, 6, 22, 23, 24
and 26, and paragraph
28(b)—17-01-2017
2. Section 5 and
subparagraph 10(a)(i) are
deemed to have effect from
the year of assessment 2015
3. Sections 12, 13, 20 and
21, subparagraph 27(a)(iii),
and paragraphs 27(b) and
29(e)—30-06-2013
4. Paragraph 7(a)—
01-01-2010
5. Paragraph 7(b), sections
8 and 9, subparagraphs
10(a)(ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi),
(vii) and (viii), paragraph
10(b), sections 11, 14, 15, 16
and 17, and subparagraphs
27(a)(i) and (ii), and
paragraphs 29(a), (b), (c), (d),
(f), (g) and (h) have effect for
the year of assessment 2017
and subsequent years of
assessment
6. Sections 18 and 25—
01-01-2017
7. Section 19 has effect for
the year of assessment 2019


Income Tax 591
Amending law Short title In force from
and subsequent years of
assessment
8. Paragraph 28(a) is
deemed to have effect from
the year of assessment 2016
Act A1556 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 30-12-2017
Act 801 Finance (No. 2) Act 2017 1. Sections 4, 7 and 8 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 5, 9, 10, 13 and
14—30-12-2017
3. Sections 6 and 12 have
effect for the year of
assessment 2018 and
subsequent years of
assessment
4. Section 11—01-01-2018
Act 812 Finance Act 2018 1. Sections 10, 11, 12, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 24, 27, 28, 29
and 30 and paragraphs 23(a),
(b), (c) and (d) have effect for
the year of assessment 2019
and subsequent years of
assessment
2. Section 13 has effect for
the years of assessment 2019,
2020 and 2021
3. Section 14 has effect for
the years of assessment 2019
and 2020
4. Paragraph 4(b) and
sections 5, 6, 6A, 7, 8, 19A


Amending law Short title In force from
and paragraph 23(aa)—
28-12-2018
5. Paragraph 4(a) and
sections 9, 20, 21, 22 and
26—01-01-2019
Act A1576 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 1. Sections 3, 4 and 5 have
2018 effect for the year of
assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of
assessment
2. Sections 2, 6, 7, 8, 9 and
10—28-12-2018
Act A1609 Income Tax (Amendment) Act 01-01-2020
Act 823 Finance Act 2019 1. Paragraph 5(a) has effect
from the year of assessment
2020 until the year of
assessment 2025
2. Section 6 has effect for
the year of assessment 2019
and subsequent years of
assessment
3. Sections 4, 7, 8, 9, 14, 20
and 21, and paragraph 19(a)
have effect for the year of
assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of
assessment
4. Paragraphs 5(b), 16(a)
and 19(b), and sections 10,
11, 13, 15, 17 and 18—
01-01-2020
5. Section 12 and paragraph
16(b)—01-01-2020


Income Tax 593
Amending law Short title In force from
Act 831 Finance Act 2020 1. Sections 4, 5, 6, 13, 15, 16,
17, 23 and 27, and
subparagraphs 14(a)(i), (ii),
(iii), (iv) and (v),
subparagraph 14(a)(viii) and
paragraph 14(b) in relation to
paragraph 46(1)(u) of the
Income Tax Act 1967, and
paragraph 28(a) have effect
for the year of assessment
2021 and subsequent years of
assessment.
2. Sections 7, 8 and 9 come
into operation on the coming
into operation of this Act —
01-01-2021.
3. Sections 10, 11, 18, 20,
21, 24, 25 and 26, and
paragraph 28(b)—
01-01-2021.
4. Section 12 has effect for
the year of assessment 2022
and subsequent years of
assessment.
5. Subparagraphs 14(a)(vi)
and (vii), subparagraph
14(a)(viii) in relation to
paragraph 46(1)(s) of the
Income Tax Act 1967,
paragraph 14(b) in relation to
paragraphs 46(1)(r) and (s) of
the Income Tax Act 1967, and
section 29 have effect for the
years of assessment 2020 and
2021.
6. Subparagraph 4(a)(viii)
and paragraph 14(b) in
relation to paragraph 46(1)(t)
of the Income Tax Act 1967


Amending law Short title In force from
have effect for the year of
assessment 2020.
7. Sections 19 and 22 are
deemed to have come into
operation on—01-01-2020.
8. Section 30 has effect for
the years of assessment 2020,
2021 and 2022.
Act 833 Finance Act 2021 1. Sections 4, 6, 13, 14, 16,
17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25
and 27, paragraph 5(a),
paragraph 5(b) in relation to
paragraph 6(1)(o) of the
Income Tax Act 1967 and
paragraph 26(b) in relation to
Part XIX of Schedule 1 to the
Income Tax Act 1967 come
into operation of this Act —
01-01-2022.
2. Sections 7, 10, 11, 12, 15,
19 and 28, paragraph 9(b) in
relation to subparagraph
46(1)(h)(iii) of the Income
Tax Act 1967 and paragraph
9(c) have effect for the year of
assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of
assessment.
3. Paragraph 5(b) in relation
to paragraph 6(1)(p) of the
Income Tax Act 1967 and
paragraph 26(b) in relation to
Part XX of Schedule 1 to the
Income Tax Act 1967 come
into operation from 01-01-
2022 until 30-06-2022.
4. Section 8 is deemed to
have effect for the year of
assessment 2019 and


Income Tax 595
Amending law Short title In force from
subsequent years of
assessment.
5. Paragraphs 9(a), (d), (g)
and (h) have effect for the
years of assessment 2022 and
2023.
6. Paragraph 9(b) in relation
to subparagraphs 46(1)(h)(i)
and (ii) of the Income Tax Act
1967 has effect for the year of
assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of
assessment.
7. Paragraph 9(e) in relation
to subparagraphs 46(1)(s)(i)
and (ii) of the Income Tax Act
1967 and paragraph 26(a)
have effect for the year of
assessment 2022.
8. Paragraph 9(e) in relation
to subparagraph 46(1)(s)(iii)
of the Income Tax Act 1967
and paragraph 9(f) have effect
for the years of assessment
2021 and 2022.
Act 845 Finance Act 2023 1. Subparagraphs 4(a)(i), (ii)
and (iii), paragraphs 4(b),
16(a), (b) and (d) and sections
5, 12, 13 and 17 have effect
for the year of assessment
2023 and subsequent years of
assessment.
2. Subparagraph 4(a)(iv) has
effect for the year of
assessment 2024.
3. Sections 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10
and paragraphs 16(c), (e) and
(f) have effect for the year of


Amending law Short title In force from
assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of
assessment.
4. Sections 11, 14 and 15 are
deemed to have come into
operation on 01-01-2023.


Act 53
INCOME TAX ACT 1967
LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED
Section Amending authority In force from
2 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. (A) 256/1970 01-01-1970
Act A60 01-01-1970
Act A98 01-01-1972
Act A108 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 2(b)–01-01-1977
Act A429 01-01-1977
Act A451 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 323 para. 4(a), (b)–25-10-1985;
para. 4(c)–Year of assessment
1986 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 4(d)–Year of assessment
1984 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A774 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 01-06-1991
Act A955 02-08-1996


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 557 para. 4(a)–25-10-1996;
para. 4(b)–01-01-1997
Act 600 16-06-2000
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 11-02-2010;
28-01-2011
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012;
28-12-2012;
11-01-2013
Act 761 Year of assessment 2013 and
subsequent years of assessment;
Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 subpara. 4(a)(iii) and para. 4(b)–
31-12-2015;
subpara. 4(a)(i) and (ii)–Year of
assessment 2015 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 785 17-01-2017
Act 812 para. 4(a)–01-01-2019;
para. 4(b)–28-12-2018
Act A1609 01-01-2020
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment
3 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
3A Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 599
Section Amending authority In force from
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 para. 4(a)–Year of assessment
1985 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 4(b)–Year of assessment
1984 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
A420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
3B Act A774 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
3C Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
4 Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
4A Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 309 21-10-1983
Act 328 21-10-1983
Act 557 01-01-1997
Act 812 28-12-2018
4B Act 755 Year of assessment 2013 and
subsequent years of assessment
4C Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
5 Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act A471 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 para. 6(a), (b)–Year of
assessment 1987 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 6(c)–Year of assessment
1986 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 01-01-2022
6 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A98 01-01-1972
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 323 para. 7(a)–Year of assessment
1986 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 7(b) and (c)–Year of
assessment 1987 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 601
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 01-01-2007
Act 683 01-01-2008
Act 693 01-01-2009
Act 742 01-01-2012 until 31-12-2016
Act 755 01-01-2013
Act 761 24-01-2014
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 para. 5(a)–Year of assessment
2020 until the year of assessment
2025;
para. 5(b)–01-01-2020
Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 01-01-2022;
para. 5(b)–01-01-2022 until
30-06-2022
6A Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
6B Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
6C Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
6D Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 01-01-2022
7 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2002 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
8 Act 755 28-12-2012
Act 833 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
9 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
10 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 603
Section Amending authority In force from
11 Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
12 Act 812 28-12-2018
13 P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 01-01-1984
Act 309 For a passage commencing on or
after 19-10-1984
Act 323 25-10-1985
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 24-10-1998
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 From the year of assessment
13A Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
14 Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
15 Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 693 09-01-2009
15A Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 309 21-10-1983
Act 328 21-10-1983
Act 557 01-01-1997
Act 624 21-09-2002
Act 693 09-01-2009
Act 785 17-01-2017


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 812 28-12-2018
15B Act 693 01-01-2009
16 Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
17 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
18 Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
19 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 420 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
20 Act A1055 01-01-2000
21 Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1055 01-01-2000
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 605
Section Amending authority In force from
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012
21A Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 801 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
22 Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
23 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
24 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 755 Year of assessment 2013 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
25 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 01-01-1999
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 01-01-2014
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
26 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
27 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 01-01-1999
Act 683 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 01-01-2014
29 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
30 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
31 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
32 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
33 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967


Income Tax 607
Section Amending authority In force from
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
34 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 497 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 619 Year of assessment 2002 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 para. 7(a)–Year of assessment
2001 and subsequent years of
assessment;
subpara. 7(b)(i)–Year of
assessment 2004 and subsequent
years of assessment;
subpara. 7(b)(ii)–Year of
assessment 2005 and subsequent
years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2010
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 para. 7(a)–01-01-2010;
para. 7(b)–Year of assessment
2017 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 812 28-12-2018
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 01-01-2021
34A Act 274 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 421 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 28-12-2018
Act 831 01-01-2021
34B Act 451 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 531 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment;
subpara. 6(a)(i)–for year of
assessment 1991
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 01-01-2021
34C Act 683 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 609
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
34D Act 755 Year of assessment 2013 and
subsequent years of assessment
35 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A108 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
36 Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
37 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
38 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
38A Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
39 Act A13 Year of assessment 1969 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A344 Year of assessment 1976 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 para. 10(a)–Year of assessment
1981 and subsequent years of
assessment;


Section Amending authority In force from
para. 10(b)–Year of assessment
1980 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 421 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 17-10-1997
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 619 Year of assessment 2002 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 01-01-2009
Act 719 para. 9(a)–Year of assessment
2011 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 9(b), (c) and (d)–
01-01-2011 for the year of
assessment 2011 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 742 01-01-2012
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 para. 10(a), (b) and (c) in respect
of paragraph 39(1)(o) and (p) of
the Income Tax Act 1967–Year
of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment;


Income Tax 611
Section Amending authority In force from
para. 10(c) in respect of
paragraph 39(1)(q) of the Income
Tax Act 1967–01-01-2016
Act 812 01-01-2019
Act 831 01-01-2021
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
42 Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1055 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
42B Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
44 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 01-01-1986
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 421 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 para. 11(a), (b)–Year of
assessment 1992 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 11(c)–Year of assessment
1991 and subsequent years of
assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 476 01-01-1990
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 8(d)–01-01-1994
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 para. 10(a) and (d)–Year of
assessment 2008 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 10(b) and (c)–29-12-2007
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1349 Years of assessment 2008, 2009
and 2010
Act A1429 23-06-2012
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 801 30-12-2017
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 01-01-2021


Income Tax 613
Section Amending authority In force from
44A Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 01-01-2014
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
44B Act A1349 Years of assessment 2008, 2009
and 2010
45 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 315 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
45A Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
46 Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 Year of assessment 2000 in
respect of the basis period ending
in the year 2000 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 subpara. 12(a)(ii), (iii) and (iv)–
Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment;
subpara. 12(a)(i) and (iv)–Year
of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment.
para 12(b)–29-12-2007


Income Tax 615
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 702 subpara. 5(a)(i)–Year of
assessment 2010 and subsequent
years of assessment;
subpara. 5(a)(ii), (iii), (iv) and
5(b)–Years of assessment 2010,
2011 and 2012
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 Year of assessment 2012, 2013,
2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 subpara. 12(a), (b), (c) and (d) in
respect of paragraph 46(1)(n) of
the Income Tax Act 1967–Year
of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 12(d) in respect of
paragraph 46(1)(o) of the Income
Tax Act 1967–Year of
assessment 2016 until the year of
assessment 2020
Act 785 para. 10(a)(i)–From year of
assessment 2015;
subpara. 10(a)(ii), (iii), (iv), (v),
(vi), (vii) and (viii), para. 10(b)–
Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Years of assessment 2019 and
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 See subsections 3(1), (5) and (6)
of the Finance Act 2020 [Act 831]
Act 833 para. 9(b) in relation to
subparagraph 46(1)(h)(iii) of the
Income Tax Act 1967–Year of
assessment 2022 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 9(b) in relation to
subparagraphs 46(1)(h)(i) and (ii)
of the Income Tax Act 1967–


Section Amending authority In force from
Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 9(c)–Year of assessment
2022 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 9(a), (d), (g) and (h)–Years
of assessment 2022 and 2023;
para. 9(e) in relation to
subparagraphs 46(1)(s)(i) and (ii)
of the Income Tax Act 1967–
Year of assessment 2022;
para. 9(e) in relation to
subparagraph 46(1)(s)(iii) of the
Income Tax Act 1967–Years of
assessment 2021 and 2022;
para. 9(f)–Years of assessment
2021 and 2022
46 Act 845 subpara. 4(a)(i), (ii), (iii), para.
4(b)– Year of assessment 2023
and subsequent years of
assessment;
subpara. 4(a)(iv)–Year of
assessment 2024
46A Act 631 Years of assessment 2003, 2004
and 2005
Act 683 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
46B Act A1349 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
47 P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A227 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 617
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 241 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
48 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A227 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 Year of assessment 2013 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
49 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 para. 10(a)–01-06-1991;
para. 10(b), (c) and (d)–Year of
assessment 1994 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 Year of assessment 2000 in
respect of the basis period ending
in the year 2000 and subsequent
years of assessment


Income Tax 619
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 until the
year of assessment 2021
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
50 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A108 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 01-06-1991
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 Year of assessment 2000 in
respect of the basis period ending
in the year 2000 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
51 Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
53 Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
53A Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
54 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
54A Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
54B Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
55 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967


Income Tax 621
Section Amending authority In force from
56 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
57B Act 764 31-12-2014
59 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
60 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 para. 10(a), (b)–Year of
assessment 1995 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 10(c)–Year of assessment 1996
and subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 30-06-2013
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
60A Act A227 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
60AA Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 30-06-2013
Act 801 Year of assessment 2018 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
60AB Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
60B Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
60C Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
60D Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 623
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 Year of assessment 2000 in
respect of the basis period ending
in the year 2000 and subsequent
years of assessment
60E Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 01-01-1993
Act 513 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 01-01-1999
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
60F Act 497 Year of assessment 1993 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
60FA Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
60G Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 11-01-2013
60H Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
60I Act 683 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 31-12-2015
61 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 01-01-2022
61A Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
62 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
63A Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
63B Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 625
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
63C Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
63D Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
64 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
65 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment;
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
65A Act A380 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 11-01-2013
65B Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
66A Act 833 01-01-2022
67 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 21-10-1983


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 01-01-2012
68 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
69 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
70 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
72 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
74 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 28-01-2011
Act 823 01-01-2020
75 Act 619 08-02-2002
Act 624 27-12-2002
75A Act 624 27-12-2002
Act 644 01-01-2006
Act 761 24-01-2014
75B Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 764 31-12-2014
Act A1576 28-12-2018
76 Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
77 Act A1055 01-01-2000
Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2003
Act 639 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 627
Section Amending authority In force from
77A Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1576 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment
77B Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 01-01-2020
Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment
77C Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
78 Act 451 14-12-1990
80 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. (A) 256/1970 01-01-1968
Act A60 01-01-1968
Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 29-12-2007
81 Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 10-02-2012
82 Act 337 24-10-1986


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 451 para. 20(a)–Year of assessment
1991 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 20(b)–14-12-1990
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1576 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
82A Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
83 Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year ending 31 December 2009
and subsequent years
Act 773 Year ending 31 December 2016
and subsequent years
Act 831 01-01-2021
Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment
83A Act 742 01-01-2012
84 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
86 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 629
Section Amending authority In force from
89 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 833 01-01-2022
90 Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
91 Act 578 01-01-1999
Act 644 01-01-2006
Act 661 01-01-2007
Act 755 01-01-2014
Act 764 31-12-2014
Act 773 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 01-01-2020
91A Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
92 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A108 Year of assessment 1972 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1055 01-01-2000
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
93 Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
95 Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
96 Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 01-01-2020
96A P.U. (A) 256/1970 01-01-1970
Act A60 01-01-1970
Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
97 Act A108 In respect of an appeal made on
or after 01-01-1972
97A Act 693 01-01-2009
Act 742 01-01-2012
Act 785 01-01-2017
Act 833 01-01-2022
Act 845 01-01-2023
98 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 693 09-01-2009
99 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A1093 For the year of assessment 2000
in respect of the basis period
ending in the year 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 761 24-01-2014
Act 764 31-12-2014
Act A1576 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
100 Act A108 01-01-1972
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment
101 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. (A) 256/1970 01-01-1970
Act A60 01-01-1970
Act 600 16-06-2000


Income Tax 631
Section Amending authority In force from
102 Act A108 01-01-1972
Act 600 16-06-2000
Act 781 24-01-2014
103 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. (A) 256/1970 01-01-1970
Act A60 01-01-1970
Act A451 01-01-1979
Act 264 01-01-1982
Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 557 25-10-1996
Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 823 01-01-2020
Act 831 01-01-2020
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
103A Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2003
103B Act 831 01-01-2021
104 Act A451 01-01-1979
Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 21-10-1983


Section Amending authority In force from
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 09-01-2009
Act 719 28-01-2011
Act 823 01-01-2020
Act 831 01-01-2021
106 Act A451 01-01-1979
Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 01-01-2020
Act 831 01-01-2020
106A Act 833 01-01-2022
107 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 15-01-2010
107A Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 557 25-10-1996
Act 624 21-09-2000
Act 661 02-09-2006
Act 693 09-01-2009
107B Act 337 01-01-1989
Act A1069 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 For the year of assessment 2000
in respect of the basis period
ending in the year 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 633
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 693 09-01-2009
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
107C Act A1069 Year of assessment 2002 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 para. 20(a)—Year of assessment
2004 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 20(b) and (c)—Year of
assessment 2001 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 26-12-2012
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 para. 15(a)—31-12-2014;
para. 15(b)—01-01-2015
Act 773 Year of assessment 2018 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 801 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
107D Act 833 01-01-2022
Act 845 01-01-2023
108 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967


Section Amending authority In force from
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A774 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 497 Year of assessment 1993 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para 6(b)—For the year of
assessment 1989
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 para. 19(a)–Year of assessment
2003 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 19(b)–Year of assessment
2001 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act A1151 para. 2(a), subpara. 21(b)(ii) and
para. 21(d)–Year of assessment
2001 and subsequent years of
assessment;
subpara. 21(b)(i), 21(c)(i) and
21(c)(ii)–Year of assessment
2004 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 631 para. 17(a)–Year of assessment
2003 and subsequent years of
assessment;


Income Tax 635
Section Amending authority In force from
para. 17(b)–01-01-2001
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
109 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A98 01-01-1972
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 01-01-1977
Act A451 01-01-1979
Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 25-10-1985
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 497 30-10-1992
Act 557 25-10-1996
Act 661 02-09-2006
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 09-01-2009
109A Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
109B Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 309 21-10-1983
Act 328 21-10-1983
Act 557 para. 19(a)–01-01-1997;
para. 19(b)–25-10-1996
Act 661 02-09-2006
Act 693 09-01-2009
Act 812 28-12-2018
109C Act 323 01-01-1986
Act A643 01-01-1986
Act 661 para. 24(a)–01-01-2007;
para. 24(b)–02-09-2006
Act 693 09-01-2009
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum to the Income Tax
Act 1967 [Act 53] reprinted in the
year 2006 and incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 785 30-06-2013
109D Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
109DA Act 833 01-01-2022
109E Act 683 01-01-2008
Act 693 09-01-2009
Act 742 01-01-2012
Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
109F Act 693 01-01-2009
109G Act 755 01-01-2013
Act 761 24-01-2014
Act 823 01-01-2020
109H Act 755 01-01-2013
110 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 497 Year of assessment 1993 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 637
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum to the Income Tax
Act 1967 [Act 53] reprinted in the
year 2006 and incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January
110A Act A774 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
110B Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
110C Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 30-06-2013
111 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A158 01-01-1973
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 28-01-2011
Act 755 01-01-2014
111A Act A774 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
111B Act 639 01-01-2005
Act 644 01-01-2006
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum to the Income Tax
Act 1967 [Act 53] reprinted in the
year 2006 and incorporating all


Section Amending authority In force from
amendments up to 1 January
111C Act 639 01-01-2005
111D Act 742 For the year of assessment 2013
112 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 513 25-02-1994
Act A1069 01-01-2000
Act A1151 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 15-01-2010
Act 764 31-12-2014
Act 773 31-12-2015
Act 801 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
112A Act 785 17-01-2017
Act A1556 30-12-2017
113 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 513 25-02-1994
113A Act 785 17-01-2017
Act A1556 30-12-2017
113B Act 831 01-01-2021
114 Act 513 25-02-1994
Act A1069 01-01-2000
115 Act 513 25-02-1994
Act 764 31-12-2014
116 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 513 25-02-1994
Act A1069 01-01-2000
117 Act 513 25-02-1994
Act A1576 28-12-2018
118 Act 513 25-02-1994
119 Act 513 25-02-1994


Income Tax 639
Section Amending authority In force from
119A Act A1093 01-01-2001
119B Act 785 17-01-2017
Act A1556 30-12-2017
120 P.U. (A) 256/1970 01-05-1970
Act A60 01-05-1970
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 513 25-02-1994
Act 578 20-03-1998
Act A1069 01-01-2000
Act A1093 01-01-2001
Act 683 01-08-2008
Act 702 15-01-2010
Act 742 01-01-2012
Act 764 31-12-2014
Act 773 31-12-2015
Act 801 30-12-2017
Act 833 01-01-2022
123 Act A1028 02-07-1998
124 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 831 01-01-2021
125 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 31-12-2015
127 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 01-10-2005
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 801 30-12-2017
Act 833 01-01-2022


Section Amending authority In force from
127A Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
128 Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 Year of assessment 1983 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
129A Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
130 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
131 Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 01-01-2014
Act 833 01-01-2022
131A Act 785 01-01-2017
Act 833 01-01-2022
Act 845 01-01-2023
132 Act 719 28-01-2011
Act A1576 28-12-2018


Income Tax 641
Section Amending authority In force from
132A Act 719 28-01-2011
132B Act 761 24-01-2014
Act A1576 28-12-2018
132C Act A1576 28-12-2018
133A Act A451 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
134 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A998 01-08-1997
Act 644 01-01-2006
Act 742 10-02-2012
136 Act 323 25-10-1985
Act A955 02-08-1996
Act 557 02-08-1996
Act 644 01-01-2006
137 Act A955 02-08-1996
138 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A225 01-01-1974
Act A955 02-08-1996
138A Act 661 01-01-2007
138B Act 661 01-01-2007
138C Act 693 01-01-2009
140 Act A1151 para. 24(a)–Year of assessment
2002 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 24(b)–Year of assessment
2004 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 761 24-01-2014
140A Act 693 01-01-2009
Act 801 01-01-2018
Act 812 01-01-2019


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 831 01-01-2021
140B Act 761 Year of assessment 2014 and
subsequent years of assessment
140C Act 812 01-01-2019
141 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
142 Act A225 01-01-1974
142A Act 683 29-12-2007
143 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
144 Act A955 02-08-1996
145 Act 293 21-10-1983
Act 420 01-01-1989
146 Act 644 01-01-2006
147 Act A158 01-01-1973
148 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
151 Act 639 01-01-2005
152A Act A1093 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 29-12-2007
Act 702 15-01-2010
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
153 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 451 14-12-1990
Act 644 01-01-2006
Act 661 01-01-2007
Act 683 21-02-2007
154 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 643
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 661 01-01-2007
Act 693 01-01-2009
Act 719 28-01-2011
Act 773 31-12-2015
Act 785 17-01-2017
Act 812 01-01-2019
Act A1576 28-12-2018
154A Act A158 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
156 Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 1 Act A32 Year of assessment 1971 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A344 Year of assessment 1976 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 15(b)–Year of assessment
1984 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment;


Section Amending authority In force from
sec. 22–Year of assessment 1987
and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 328 From year of assessment 1984
Act 337 Year of assessment 1988 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1990 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 497 Year of assessment 1993 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 19(c) and (e)–28-10-1994
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 01-01-1997
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 For the year of assessment 2000
in respect of the basis period
ending in the year 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A619 Year of assessment 2002 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 para. 30 (a)–Year of assessment
2007 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 30 (b)–01-01-2007
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 645
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 693 para. 42(a) and (b)–Year of
assessment 2009 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 42(d)–01-01-2009;
para. 42(c)–01-01-2009 to
31-12-2011
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 para. 33(a) and (d)–Year of
assessment 2013 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 33(b) and (c)–26-12-2012;
para. 33(e)–01-01-2013
Act 761 24-01-2014
Act 812 para 23(a), (b), (c) and (d)–Year
of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para 23(aa)–28-12-2018
Act 823 para. 19(a)–Year of assessment
2020 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para 19(b)–01-01-2020
Act 833 para. 26(a)–Year of assessment
Part I
paragraph 1 Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 801 Year of assessment 2018 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 1A Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 2 Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
paragraph 2A Act 764 31-12-2014;
Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 2B Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 2D Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 785 Year of assessment 2017 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 2E Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 2F Act 845 Year of assessment 2024 and
subsequent years of assessment
paragraph 4 Act 785 30-06-2013
Part IV Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Part XII Act 785 30-06-2013
Part XVII and Act 831 Year of assessment 2021 and
XVIII subsequent years of assessment
Part XIX Act 833 01-01-2022
Part XX Act 833 01-01-2022 until 30-06-2022
Schedule 2 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 647
Section Amending authority In force from
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 19-10-1984
Act 755 01-01-2014
Schedule 3 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1970 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A108 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A158 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A273 Year of assessment 1975 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 421 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 18(a)–Year of assessment
1991 and subsequent years of
assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 531 Year of assessment 1995 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A1028 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 For the year of assessment 2000
in respect of the basis period
ending in the year 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 619 para. 8(a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g),
(h), (i), (j), (l) and (m)–Year of
assessment 2002 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 8(c)–For the year of
assessment 2000 in respect of the
basis period ending in the year
2000 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 8(k) in respect of paragraph
37F of Schedule 3 to the Income
Tax Act 1967–Year of
assessment 2002 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 8(k) in respect of
paragraphs 37G and 37H of
Schedule 3 to the Income Tax Act
1967–Year of assessment 2001
and subsequent years of
assessment
Act A1151 para. 25(a) and subpara.
25(b)(ii)–Year of assessment
2004 and subsequent years of
assessment;


Income Tax 649
Section Amending authority In force from
subpara. 25(b)(i)–Year of
assessment 2002 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 624 21-09-2002
Act 631 subpara. 19(a)(i)–13-09-2003;
subpara. 19(a)(ii)–Year of
assessment 2000 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 19(b)–Year of assessment
2003 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 Year of assessment 2008 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 693 para. 43(b), (c), (d), (e) and (f)–
Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 43(a)–09-01-2009
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum to the Income Tax
Act 1967 [Act 53] reprinted in the
year 2006 and incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January
Act A1349 Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 para. 35(c) and (f)–26-12-2012;
para. 35(a)–11-01-2013;
para. 35(b)–01-01-2014;
para. 35(c) in relation to business
trust–28-12-2012;
para. 35(d) and (e)–Year of
assessment 2013 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 761 24-01-2014
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment


Section Amending authority In force from
Act 773 para. 25(a) and (e)–Year of
assessment 2015 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 25(b), (c) and (d)–Year of
assessment 2016 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 785 para. 28(a)–from the year of
assessment 2016;
para. 28(b)–17-01-2017
Act 801 30-12-2017
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 para. 28(a)–Year of assessment
2021 and subsequent years of
assessment,
para. 28(b)–01-01-2021
Act 845 Year of assessment 2023 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 4 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 19-10-1984
Act 624 Year of assessment 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 01-01-2014
Schedule 4A Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 4B Act 451 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 651
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 742 Year of assessment 2012 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 4C Act 591 Year of assessment 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 27-12-2002
Act 639 Year of assessment 2005 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 5 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A108 01-01-1972
Act A225 01-03-1974
Act A434 01-07-1978
Act 328 24-10-1986
Act 451 14-12-1990
Act 600 16-06-2000
Act 683 29-12-2007
Act 693 09-01-2009
Act A1609 01-01-2020
Schedule 6 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 146/1969 10-12-1969
P.U. (A) 510/1969 Year of assessment 1971 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A158 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 266/1974 Year of assessment 1973 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 267/1974 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 328/1974 Year of assessment 1963 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 50/1976 Year of assessment 1976 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 303/1976 Year of assessment 1976 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 186/1977 From year of assessment 1973


Section Amending authority In force from
P.U. (B) 187/1977 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 363/1977 01-12-1974
P.U. (B) 364/1977 From year of assessment 1973
P.U. (B) 365/1977 From year of assessment 1977
Act A380 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 421/1979 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 422/1979 Year of assessment 1977 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A429 Year of assessment 1978 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 12(b)–Year of assessment
1977 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act A451 Year of assessment 1979 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (B) 423/1979 From year of assessment 1980
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 241 para. 18(a)–Year of assessment
1980 and subsequent years of
assessment;
Year of assessment 1981 and
subsequent years of assessment;
Act 264 Year of assessment 1982 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 Year of assessment 1983 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 15(a)–22-10-1982
Act 293 Year of assessment 1984 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 309 Year of assessment 1985 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 19(g)–Year of assessment
1984 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 24(b)–25-10-1985
Act 328 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment;


Income Tax 653
Section Amending authority In force from
para. 19(h)–Year of assessment
1988 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 para. 28(d) and (e)–01-10-1989;
Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 476 Year of assessment 1992 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 497 Year of assessment 1993 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 Year of assessment 1994 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para 28(d)–16-02-1993
Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 600 For the year of assessment 2000
in respect of the basis period
ending in the year 2000 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 608 Year of assessment 2001 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 631 Year of assessment 2004 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 639 para. 33(a)–Year of assessment
2003 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 33(b)–11-09-2004
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 para. 32(d)–02-09-2006;
para. 32(a), (b), (c) and (e)–Year
of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 683 para. 36(d)–Year of assessment
2007 and subsequent years of
assessment;


Section Amending authority In force from
para. 36(a) and (f)–Year of
assessment 2008 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 36(b), (c) and (e)–01-01-
Act 693 para. 45(b)–Year of assessment
2009 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 45(a)–Year of assessment
2008 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act A1349 01-07-2008
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum to the Income Tax
Act 1967 [Act 53] reprinted in the
year 2006 and incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 755 para. 37(a)–26-12-2012;
para. 37(b)–Year of assessment
2012 and subsequent years of
assessment
Act 764 para. 22(b) and (c)–Year of
assessment 2015 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 22(a)–31-12-2014
Act 773 para. 26(a)–Year of assessment
2016 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 26(b), (c) and (d)–31-12-
Act 785 para. 29(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)
and (h)–Year of assessment 2017
and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 29(e)–30-06-2013
Act 801 30-12-2017
Act 812 01-01-2019
Act 823 Year of assessment 2020 and
subsequent years of assessment


Income Tax 655
Section Amending authority In force from
Act 831 Years of assessment 2020 and
Act 833 01-01-2022
Schedule 7 Act A226 Year of assessment 1974 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 591 Year of assessment 1999 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 Year of assessment 2007 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2016 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 7A Act A451 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1980 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 274 Year of assessment 1983 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 323 Year of assessment 1986 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A643 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 328 Year of assessment 1987 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 364 Year of assessment 1989 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 14(b), (e)–Year of
assessment 1990 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 420 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 421 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 451 Year of assessment 1991 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 544 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 557 Year of assessment 1997 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 578 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment;


Section Amending authority In force from
para. 21(d)–Year of assessment
1999 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 21(g)–01-01-1999
Act 591 Year of assessment 1998 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 619 para. 10(a), (b) and (c)–Year of
assessment 2002 and subsequent
years of assessment;
para. 10(d)–Year of assessment
1998 and subsequent years of
assessment;
Act 624 Year of assessment 2003 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 644 Year of assessment 2006 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 661 02-09-2006
Act 683 29-12-2007
Act 693 para. 46(a), (c), (d), (f), and (g),
and subpara. 46(e)(i) and (ii)–
Year of assessment 2009 and
subsequent years of assessment;
para. 46(b)–09-01-2009;
subpara. 46(e)(iii)–Year of
assessment 2009 and 2010
09-01-2009
Act 719 Year of assessment 2011 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 742 para. 23(b)–Year of assessment
2011;
para. 23(a) and (c)–Year of
assessment 2012 and subsequent
years of assessment
Act 755 para. 38(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g),
(h) and (i)–Year of assessment
2013 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 38(f)–01-01-2014
Act 764 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 para. 28(a)–Year of assessment
2015 and subsequent years of
assessment;


Income Tax 657
Section Amending authority In force from
para. 28(c)–Year of assessment
2016 and subsequent years of
assessment;
para. 28(b)–Year of assessment
2016, 2017 and 2018
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 831 Years of assessment 2020, 2021
and 2022
Act 833 Year of assessment 2022 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 7B Act 544 Year of assessment 1996 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 702 Year of assessment 2010 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 773 Year of assessment 2015 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act 812 Year of assessment 2019 and
subsequent years of assessment
Schedule 9 Act 77/1967 14-12-1967
P.U. 144/1968 14-12-1967
Act A13 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 256/1970 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A60 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A108 01-01-1972
Act A158 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
Act A471 Year of assessment 1968 and
subsequent years of assessment
P.U. (A) 212/1989 From year of assessment 1968
P.U. (A) 266/1990 From year of assessment 1968
P.U. (B) 62/2009 Corrigendum to the Income Tax
Act 1967 [Act 53] reprinted in the
year 2006 and incorporating all
amendments up to 1 January
Throughout the Act Act A1609 01-01-2020