DOMESTIC INVESTMENT
ACCELERATOR FUND - www.mida.gov.my
ESG ADOPTION
(as of 27/04/2026)
GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE DOMESTIC
INVESTMENT ACCELERATOR FUND (DIAF) – ESG ADOPTION
1. BACKGROUND
1.1. The Domestic Investment Accelerator Fund (DIAF) is a matching
grant for ESG adoption that was introduced to support Malaysian-
owned Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and Mid-Tier Companies
(MTCs) in the manufacturing and selected services sectors for the
transition into ESG practices.
1.2. The DIAF ESG grant is given on a matching basis of 50:50 based on
a case-to-case basis with a maximum reimbursable amount of
RM500,000 per company subject to the availability of the grant.
1.3. The main objectives of this grant are:
1.3.1 To facilitate and assist SMEs and MTCs to transition into ESG
practices through validation and verification of ESG adoption
1.3.2 To ensure compliance and transparency through certification and
disclosures aligned with recognized ESG standards.
1.3.3 To promote digital ESG solutions by supporting the subscription
and use of technology systems/software for ESG tracking and
data collection.
1.3.4 To strengthen ESG Capabilities with targeted capacity building
training programs
2. EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPLICATION
Applications received by the Malaysian Investment Development Authority
(MIDA) until 31 October 2026 will be eligible for consideration for this grant.
However, the approval of these applications is subject to the availability of
funding and allocation by the Government of Malaysia and the prevailing policy
in force.


3. ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURES
3.1. Eligible expenditures incurred related to the adoption of ESG practices
based on the following activities:
3.1.1 Costs related to validation, verification, and/or certification for
ESG adoption;
3.1.2 Costs related to tracking of carbon emissions and ESG
disclosures;
3.1.3 First year’s subscription of system and/ or software for data
collection and tracking of ESG adoption and/or GHG emissions;
3.1.4 Costs related to capacity building training for ESG practices,
limited to training fees, training materials and/or ESG-related
professional certifications fees (for employees) only.
3.2. Non-eligible expenditures**
a) Purchase or rental of land/building/office/vehicles/furniture;
b) Rental/purchase of automation machine/ equipment/refurbish/
retrofitting;
c) Maintenance and repair costs including renovation of the premise;
d) Wages paid to employees;
e) Employee benefits programs;
f) Legal and stamp duty fees;
g) Insurance;
h) Collateral or loan including its interest payments;
i) Office expenses and supplies including general-purpose
computers & peripherals and mobile phones;
j) Utility expenses;
k) Research & development expenses;
l) Advertising and marketing expenses; and
m) Any other common item and/or any items that are not explicitly
used for the approved training and/or certification projects.
**Note: The list is not exhaustive and will be reviewed from time to time.
4. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
4.1. The company must be incorporated under the Companies Act, 2016.
4.2. Effective equity ownership of the company must be at least 51%
Malaysians.


4.3. The company possesses a valid Business Licence from the respective
Local Authority.
4.4. The companies must engage/ undertake any of the following activities:-
4.4.1 Manufacturing activities where the company must possess a
valid Manufacturing Licence (ML) from MITI or the
Confirmation Letter for Exemption from ML from MIDA in
compliance with the Industrial Coordination Act, 1975; or
4.4.2 Services activities that are governed/ supervised by relevant
ministries/ agencies in the following areas: -
a) Hotel and Tourism;
b) Private Healthcare;
c) Private Education;
d) Oil & Gas Services;
e) Global Establishment - Principal Hub/Global Services Hub;
f) R&D Services;
g) Logistics Services;
h) Smart Logistics Warehouse or
i) Other Services:-
i. Ship Building Ship Repair;
ii. Green Technology Project - Business Purpose;
iii. Sterilisation Services;
iv. Digital Infrastructure; and
v. Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul for Aerospace.
4.4.3 The company has been in operation for at least 3 years.
4.4.4 A company is categorised as SME or MTC based on the
following criteria:
Manufacturing Services
SME Sales turnover not exceeding Sales turnover not exceeding
RM50 million or RM20 million or
Full-time employees not Full-time employees not
exceeding 200 persons exceeding 75 persons
MTC Sales turnover from RM50 Sales turnover from RM20
million to RM500 million million to RM500 million


Note:
● All SMEs and MTCs must be entities registered with the Companies
Commission of Malaysia; and
● SMEs and MTCs with shareholders of more than 20% by Public Listed
Companies on the main board, Multinational Corporations (MNCs), Public
Listed Companies in the main board, Government Link Companies (GLCs),
Government Link Investment Companies (GLICs), Government-owned
Companies, Syarikat Menteri Kewangan Diperbadankan (MKDs) and State-
Owned enterprises (if any) are NOT eligible.
5. PROJECT DURATION
5.1. Company can only commence the project upon receiving the
Acknowledgement Letter issued by MIDA. The project must be
completed within 12 months from the date of the Acknowledgement
Letter, which is the effective date of the grant period.
Notwithstanding the above, the final decision of the application is subject
to the deliberation of the National Committee of Investment (NCI).
5.2. Any expenditures incurred prior to the issuance of the
Acknowledgement Letter by MIDA (the effective date of the grant period)
will not be eligible for consideration or reimbursement.
5.3. Any unutilised allocation after 12 months from the effective date of the
grant period will be automatically withdrawn. Any request for an
extension will not be entertained.
6. APPLICATION PROCEDURES
The application procedures are as follows:-
6.1. Company must undertake an ESG self-assessment via the
https://sustainability.mida.gov.my portal prior to submitting the
application to MIDA, to determine the baseline level of ESG readiness
or adoption. The assessment must meet the following requirements;
a) to answer at least 50% of the questions under each key Impact
Area i.e. Governance, Workers, Community, Environment and
Customers; and
b) to complete the Disclosure questionnaire.
Upon obtaining the result of the assessment, the company is to identify
and engage any qualified & certified service providers/ vendors in order
to obtain the necessary quotations for the eligible expenditures to be
incurred in relation to the adoption of ESG practices as per the
expenditures allowed in para 3.1.


6.2. The application for Domestic Investment Accelerator Fund (DIAF) for
ESG adoption is to be submitted to MIDA via
https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my/ together with the ESG self-
assessment report generated from 6.1 (B impact performance report,
improvement report & goal setting report), service providers/ vendors’
quotations and other relevant supporting documents.
6.3. A non-refundable processing fee of RM3,000 is chargeable for each
application. Payment is to be made via the
https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my/ portal prior to the submission of the
application form. As the processing fee is not refundable,
companies are strongly advised to thoroughly review the eligibility
criteria and guidelines before submitting the application.
6.4. MIDA will issue an Acknowledgment Letter to the company upon
receiving a duly completed application form together with all the
required supporting documents.
6.5. Successful applicants will receive a Decision Letter together with a copy
of DIAF grant agreement and relevant documents. The signed (2)
copies of the DIAF agreement (including stamping) must be returned to
MIDA within 60 working days from the date of the Decision Letter.
Failing which, the offer will be automatically cancelled and any
request for extensions will not be entertained.
6.6. Disbursement of grant:-
6.6.1 The successful applicant has to undertake the approved project
and submit the necessary claims for disbursement of the grant
within the stipulated time as detailed in para 5.1;
6.6.2 Companies are required to re-do the ESG self-assessment via
the https://sustainability.mida.gov.my portal after the completion
of the project and submit the report together with the grant
submission via https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my/;
6.6.3 The grant submission must include, among other items, the ESG
report prepared by approved service providers/vendors
according to the initial proposal. This report should outline the
company's gap analysis and necessary findings;
6.6.4 MIDA will conduct an audit on the project expenditures and report
the findings to the Jawatankuasa Penyelarasan & Pembayaran
Geran (JPPG) for grant disbursement decisions;
6.6.5 MIDA will disburse the grant upon the approval by the JPPG to
the successful company.


7. TERMINATION OF GRANT
MIDA reserves the right to withdraw the grant if the applicant fails to execute
the project as approved or if it was discovered that any or a part of the
information provided during the application process was fraudulent in nature.


Appendix I
Please submit Appendix I and Appendix II together with the DIAF-ESG Application through the InvestMalaysia Portal
(https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my/EIP/InvestMalaysia.aspx )
(A) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CHECKLIST (Please tick (√) the checkbox)
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 2016
A company is categorised as SME or MTC
Effective equity of the company must be at least 51% owned by Malaysians.
The company possesses a valid Business Licence from a Local Authority
The company must engage in the following activities:
1. Manufacturing activity in compliance with the Industrial Coordination Act,
1975;
OR
2. Services activities that is governed/supervised by relevant
ministries/agencies in the following area:
a) Hotel and Tourism;
b) Private Healthcare;
c) Private Education;
d) Oil & Gas Services;
e) Global Establishment - Principal Hub/Global Services Hub;
f) R&D Services;
g) Smart Logistics Warehouse
h) Logistics Services; or
i) Other Services: -
i. Ship Building Ship Repair;
ii. Green Technology Project - Business Purpose;
iii. Sterilisation Services;
iv. Digital Infrastructure; and
v. Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul for Aerospace.
The company has been in operation for at least 3 years
Undertake an ESG self-assessment via the https://sustainability.mida.gov.my portal
i. to answer at least 50% of the questions under each key Impact Area i.e.
Governance, Workers, Community, Environment and Customers; and
ii. to complete the Disclosure questionnaire.
The company is part of the local supply chain of Multinational Companies (MNCs)
and/or anchor companies.
Yes
No


Appendix II
(B) DOCUMENT CHECKLIST (Please tick (√) the checkbox)
ESG self-assessment report (B impact performance report, improvement report & goal
setting report) from the https://sustainability.mida.gov.my portal
Quotations for the:
i. Costs related to validation, verification, and/or certification for ESG adoption;
ii. Costs related to tracking of carbon emissions and ESG disclosures;
iii. First year’s subscription of system and/ or software for data collection and
tracking of ESG adoption and/or GHG emissions;
iv. Costs related to capacity building training for ESG practices, limited to training
fees, training materials and/or ESG-related professional certifications fees (for
employees) only.
Provide the information by completing the template in Appendix IV. Kindly include the
following documents related to the training programme (if applicable):
i. Objectives and expected outcomes of the training;
ii. Details of the training programme and structure, including course syllabus,
course outline, training provider, delivery method (online/physical/hybrid), and
timeline (hours/days);
iii. Detailed list of employees to be trained (name, designation, and department);
iv. Breakdown of training costs (training fees and certification fees, if applicable);
v. Details of ESG-related professional certification (name of certification and issuing
body).
Please complete the table below and submit the audited financial statements for the
latest three (3) years.
Year
Revenue
Profit (loss) before tax
Tax Contribution
Net Profit (loss)
Fixed Assets
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
Current Ratio


A copy of the latest Company Profile (e-Info) by the Companies Commission of
Malaysia (SSM)
A copy of a valid Business Licence from the Local Authority
A copy of a valid Manufacturing Licence (ML) OR a copy of a Confirmation Letter
Exempted from ML from MIDA under Industrial Coordination Act, 1975 (Applicable for
manufacturing company only)
A copy of a valid Licence/ Permit/ Support letter from relevant ministries/ agencies that
govern the activities. (Applicable for services company only)
A copy of Approval Letter on Incentives/ Grants by MIDA or Other Government
Agencies (if any)
ESG Service/ Training Provider/Vendor’s Credentials in terms of certificates and/or
supporting evidence including but not limited to:
i. Company's certifications related to ESG;
ii. Number of personnel involved in the project and their qualifications (attach a
copy of professional qualification certificates);
iii. Previous projects related to ESG services;
iv. A copy of the latest Company Profile (e-Info) by the Companies Commission of
Malaysia (SSM) and
v. Clients’ testimonials
vi. Training Provider’s/ Vendor’s ESG training related certifications
Any other supporting documents for the proposed projects (if applicable)


Appendix III
(C) COMPANY DECLARATION ON CLIENT CLASSIFICATION AND ESG SELF-ASSESSMENT
1. Is your company a part of the local/ international supply chain of Multinational
Companies (MNCs) and/or Anchor Companies?
● YES
● NO
If yes, please provide a list of MNC and Anchor Company clients from the past 2 years:
i)
ii)
iii)
2. What are the direct and indirect impacts of the DIAF-ESG grant on the company’s
business?
3. Details of ESG Self-Assessment.
Date of Report Score


Appendix IV
(D) TRAINING PROGRAM DETAILS (TEMPLATE)
No Details of Training Description
Section A: Training Justification & Objectives
1. Objective of the Training To build internal capability in carbon accounting and
emissions tracking to support the company’s transition
towards low-carbon operations
2. Expected Outcomes Employees will be able to prepare a basic ESG report,
identify material ESG risks, and establish key ESG
performance indicators (KPIs) for the company.
3. Relevance to ESG Practices The training is directly relevant to the company’s
environmental strategy, particularly in measuring and
reducing carbon emissions in line with national and global
sustainability targets.
Section B: Training Programme Details
4. Training Provider Name XXX Sdn. Bhd.
5. Delivery Mode (i.e. physical/ online/ hybrid)
6. Training Duration 4 months
(Start and End date) (1/5/2026 - 31/08/2026)
7. Course Structure & Training Module 1: Introduction to ESG (3 hours)
Syllabus Module 2: ESG Materiality Assessment ( 4 hours)
Provide as much detail as possible. Company may
provide information in a separate document
8. Tools/ Framework ● GRI framework
● GHG Protocol
● SASB
● Materiality matrix template
Section C: Employee Participation
9. Number of employees to be trained 20 pax
Section D: ESG Professional Certification (if applicable)
10. Certification Name GRI Certified Sustainability Professional
11. Issuing Body Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)


12. Certification Mandatory Yes/ No/ Optional
13. Expected Outcome Employees will be certified to prepare ESG/sustainability
reports aligned with GRI Standards
Section F: Cost Breakdown
14. Training Fees RMXX
15. Training Materials Costs RMXX
16. Certification Fees RMXX
17. Total Cost RMXX
