JOHOR-SINGAPORE SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONE (JS-SEZ)
TAX INCENTIVE PACKAGE
1. BACKGROUND
The JS-SEZ is a designated area in Johor, Malaysia, designed to foster economic
collaboration and investment between Malaysia and Singapore. It aims to create
a vibrant hub for businesses in various sectors, leveraging the strengths of both
countries.
Following the signing of the JS-SEZ agreement between Malaysia and
Singapore, the Government of Malaysia announced an incentive package for the
JS-SEZ on 8 January 2025.
The incentive package is attached in Appendix A and B. Detailed guideline for
tax incentive applications to MIDA will be available in due course.
2. EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPLICATION
Applications received by the Malaysian Investment Development Authority
(MIDA) from 1 January 2025 until 31 December 2034.
3. APPLICATION SUBMISSION FOR TAX INCENTIVES UNDER MIDA
3.1 Applications shall be made online at https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my.
3.2 Application with incomplete information will not be accepted and will be
returned to the applicant company.
3.3 For enquiries and clarification, please refer to: -
Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA)
MIDA Website : www.mida.gov.my
Tel : (603) – 2267 3633
Fax : (603) – 2273 7970
Email : investment@mida.gov.my
and/or
Invest Malaysia Facilitation Centre Johor (IMFC-J)
IMFC-J Website : www.irda.com.my
Tel : (607) – 2233 3000
Fax : (607) – 2233 3001
Email : imfcj@irda.com.my


www.mida.gov.my
APPENDIX A: JS-SEZ TAX INCENTIVES PACKAGE UNDER MIDA
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
A. Manufacturing • Flagship F –
Type of Company Tax Incentive Period
Business Incentive Kulai - Sedenak
Scheme: (AI and
New investment in the
Quantum
i. AI and Quantum manufacturing sector with
Tax Rate of 5% 15 years Computing
Computing Supply capital investment (excluding
Supply Chain,
Chain; land) above RM1 billion
Medical
New
ii. Medical Devices; Devices, and
Company New investment in the
Pharmaceutical)
iii. Pharmaceutical; or manufacturing sector with
iv. Aerospace capital investment (excluding Tax Rate of 5% 10 years • Flagship E –
Manufacturing and land) between RM500 million Senai - Skudai
MRO Services to RM1 billion (Aerospace
Manufacturing
Investment Tax and MRO
New investment in the
Allowance of Services)
manufacturing sector with
100% on the
capital investment (excluding
qualifying capital
land) above RM500 million for
Existing investment
existing company in Malaysia 5 years
Company (excluding land)
relocating overseas facilities
incurred within 5
(for a new business segment
years, against
not expansion of existing
100% statutory
products) into Malaysia.
income
.


www.mida.gov.my
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
B. Global Services Hub Tax Incentives • Flagship A
(Johor Bahru
i. Regional P&L; • Special tax rate of 5% for a period up to 15 years
Waterfront) and
ii. Strategic Business Eligibility Criteria / Conditions B (Iskandar
Planning; Puteri)
i. Annual operating expenditure of at least RM50 million;
iii. Corporate
ii. Company must Serve / Business Control of at least 10 Network Companies;
Development; and
iii. Annual sales turnover of at least RM500 million and forex in-flow into the local
iv. Regional or Global
banking system as proposed;
Treasury and Fund
Management iv. A minimum of 50% of high-value positions (with a minimum monthly basic
conducting cash salary of RM10,000) shall be filled by full-time Malaysian employees as
pooling activities via proposed.
onshore
intermediaries.
C. Integrated Tourism Type of Incentives • Flagship G
Project (Desaru –
• Investment Tax Allowance (ITA) of 100% qualifying capital expenditure
Penawar)
incurred within 5 years. The allowance can be offset against 70% of the
statutory income for each year of assessment.
Eligibility Criteria / Conditions
i. Company which does not have an existing entity or related entity undertaking
same hotel or tourism project in Malaysia;
ii. Paid-up capital of at least RM2.5 million;
iii. Investment in capital expenditure (excluding land) of at least RM500 million;


www.mida.gov.my
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
iv. Company undertaking integrated tourism project which consists of the
following:
a) Hotel with minimum number of rooms of 80 which consists of standard,
superior, deluxe and suite; and
b) Minimum 1 tourist attractions (i.e. water park, outdoor park consists of
rides and/or games, convention centre with capacity minimum of 3,000
participants, or outdoor sport excluding golf course and driving range).
D. Smart Logistics Incentives • Flagship C
Complex (Tanjung
• Investment Tax Allowance (ITA) of 100% qualifying capital expenditure
Pelepas)
Smart logistic operator incurred within 5 years. The allowance can be offset against 100% of the
who invests in statutory income for each year of assessment.
development of smart
Eligibility Criteria / Conditions
logistics and carry out any
of the eligible logistic i. Investment in capital expenditure (excluding land) of at least RM500 million;
activities:
ii. The built-up area of the smart warehouse complex must be at least 50,000 m2
i. Regional Distribution and equipped with at least three (3) enabling elements technologies under the
Hub; IR4.0;
ii. Integrated Logistic iii. Use the application of modern construction techniques i.e. achieving a score
Services; for the Industrial Building System (IBS) that has been set by the Construction
Industry Development Board (CIDB);
iii. Dangerous Goods
Storage; iv. Total full-time workforce must consist of at least 80% Malaysian citizens;
iv. Cold Chain Facilities v. A minimum of 30% of total high-value positions (with a minimum basic salary
of RM10,000) shall be filled by full-time Malaysian employees.


www.mida.gov.my
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
E. Manufacturing – Type of Incentives • Flagship D
Downstream Specialty (Tanjung
• Special Tax Rate for a company with capital investment (excluding land) of
Chemicals: Langsat –
RM500 million and above in the manufacturing sector;
Kong-kong)
i. Base chemical –
i) Tier 1: 5% Special Tax Rate for up to 10 years (5 years + 5 years)
methanol, ethylene,
propylene, benzene, ii) Tier 2: 10% Special Tax Rate for up to 10 years (5 years + 5 years)
aromatics;
OR
ii. Organics
Income tax exemption equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance (ITA)
intermediates – C1 to
for a company with capital investment (excluding land) of RM500 million
C6;
and above in the manufacturing sector;
iii. Specialty chemical;
i) Tier 1: Income tax exemption equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance
iv. Fertilisers; (ITA) of 100% on the qualifying capital investment (excluding land) for
up to 10 years (5 years + 5 years). The allowance can be offset
v. Polymers/plastics; or
against up to 100% of statutory income for each assessment year.
vi. Oleochemical/
ii) Tier 2: Income tax exemption equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance
biochemical
(ITA) of 60% on the qualifying capital investment (excluding land) for
up to 10 years (5 years + 5 years). The allowance can be offset
against up to 100% of statutory income for each assessment year.
Eligibility Criteria / Conditions
i. A new company or an existing company undertaking diversification activities
in relation to the eligible activities/products under this cluster;
ii. The company is required to have a minimum paid-up capital of RM2.5 million
at the point of submission of application to MIDA.


www.mida.gov.my
APPENDIX B: OTHER INCENTIVES
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
F. Additional (a) 40% stamp duty exemption on the instrument of transfer/financing • Flagship A (Johor
Incentives agreement for the purchase of a commercial property in Flagship A and Bahru Waterfront)
B that remains unsold as at 31st December 2024. The stamp duty and B (Iskandar
exemption to be provided under Section 80(1) under the Stamp Act Puteri)
1949.
(b) A deduction equivalent to amount not exceeding RM1 million for each
• Flagship G (Desaru
year assessment in respect of cash contribution or contribution in-kind
– Penawar)
by qualifying person who sponsors a hallmark event.
The hallmark event referred to is an event of regional or international
significance which is carried on in Flagship G and supported/verified by
MOTAC. For contribution made between 1 January 2025 to 31
December 2034.
(c) ACA in respect of renovation costs incurred on a building or part of a
commercial building located in Flagship A-G for the purpose of • All Flagships
qualifying company's business. Qualifying companies are companies
that have been approved any tax incentives under PIA 1986 or ITA 1967
between 1 Jan 2025-31 December 2034 and operating in Flagship A-
G. This incentive to be utilised only once throughout their business
operation in JSSEZ.
To include expenses on:
• General electrical installation
• Lighting
• Gas system
• Water system


www.mida.gov.my
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
• Kitchen fittings
• Sanitary fittings
• Door, gate, window, grill and roller shutter
• Fixed partitions
• Flooring (including carpets)
• Wall covering (including paint work)
• Incentives & Eligibility Criteria
• False ceiling and cornices
• Ornamental features or decorations excluding fine art
• Canopy or awning
• Recreation room for employee
• Air-conditioning system
• Day care centre for employees' children
• Surau
• Reception area
• Green elements, smart solutions systems
Initial allowance:20%, Annual Allowance: 40%
G. Knowledge Worker Incentives • All Flagships
Incentive
• 15% flat tax rate on chargeable employment income for a period of 10
years.
Eligibility Criteria / Conditions
i. Malaysian/Non-Malaysian citizen;
ii. Not generating employment income in Malaysia 24-months prior
iii. Salary abroad/in Malaysia >RM20,000 per month


www.mida.gov.my
Projects Tax Incentive Flagship
iv. Subject to academic qualifications / years of professional work
experience
v. Subject to MyCOL profession and JS-SEZ qualifying sectors
