www.mida.gov.my
GUIDELINE ON APPLICATION FOR GREEN TECHNOLOGY INCENTIVE
I. GREEN INVESTMENT TAX ALLOWANCE (GITA) PROJECT FOR BUSINESS
PURPOSES
II. GREEN INCOME TAX EXEMPTION (GITE) SOLAR LEASING
1. BACKGROUND
1.1 The Government has made a strong stance in renewable energy targets by
increasing the share of renewable energy in the electricity generation
capacity mix to 70% by 2050. In line with Malaysia’s aspiration to be an
inclusive, sustainable and carbon neutral nation by 2050, the Government
had announced an extension and revision of Green Technology Tax
Incentive during the 2024 National Budget.
1.2 The revision of Green Technology Tax Incentives provides tax incentive
based on a tiering approach and categorised into three (3) categories as
follows:
i) Green Investment Tax Allowance (GITA) Project for Business
Purposes;
ii) Green Income Tax Exemption (GITE) Solar Leasing; and
iii) Green Investment Tax Allowance (GITA) Asset for Own Consumption.
1.3 Based on the revision, the qualifying activities for GITA Project for Business
Purpose are expanded to cover new green technology projects namely
green hydrogen, electric vehicle charging station and renewable energy
source from wind energy. Both GITA Project for Business Purpose and
GITE Solar Leasing to be submitted to Malaysia Investment Development
Authority (MIDA). Meanwhile, GITA Asset for Own Consumption to be
submitted to Malaysian Green Technology and Climate Change
Corporation (MGTC).


2. TAX INCENTIVES UNDER MIDA
2.1. Green Investment Tax Allowance (GITA) Project for Business Purpose
Qualifying Activities Percentage Percentage of Incentive
of GITA Statutory Income Period
to be Set-Off
Tier 1 Up to 10
i. Green Hydrogen 100% 100% or 70% years
(5+5)
Tier 2
i. Integrated Waste
5 years
Management (IWM) 100% 100%
ii. Electric Vehicle (EV)
Charging Station
Tier 3
Generation of energy from
renewable sources:
i. Biomass
ii. Biogas 100% 70% 5 years
iii. Mini Hydro
iv. Geothermal
v. Solar
vi. Wind Energy
Details of tax incentive for GITA Project for Business Purpose are as in Appendix I.
2.2. Green Income Tax Exemption (GITE) Solar Leasing
Tier Tax Exemption on Incentive Period
Statutory Income
Tier 1 10 years
>10MW - ≤30MW
70%
Tier 2 5 years
>3MW - ≤10MW
Details of tax incentive for GITE Solar Leasing are as in Appendix II.


3. ELIGIBILE APPLICATION
3.1. GITA Project for a) New or existing company which is incorporated
Business Purpose under the Companies Act, 2016 and resident in
Malaysia.
i) New company refers to newly established
company for the purpose of carrying on any
qualifying activities under GITA Project which
may have related entity in Malaysia carrying
on same qualifying activities in Malaysia.
ii) Existing company refers to company which
is already operating in Malaysia, and
• has yet to undertake any qualifying
activities under GITA Project; or
• has undertaken any qualifying activities
under GITA Project and has not been
approved for Green Technology Incentive.
The company is only eligible for tax
incentive for diversification1 project only; or
• has undertaken any qualifying activities
under GITA Project which was approved
for Green Technology Incentive under this
scheme and plan to undertake expansion2
and/or diversification1 project subject to
the following conditions:
- the application for the expansion
and/or diversification project shall be
submitted within the period of existing
tax incentive;
- the company has obtained the
effective date for the existing tax
incentive from MIDA; and
- the period of tax incentive for
expansion and/or diversification
project is limited to same effective
period of existing tax incentive.
b) The date of the first qualifying capital
expenditure (CAPEX) shall not be incurred
earlier than the date of application received by
MIDA.
1 Diversification refers to different qualifying activities
2 Expansion refers to same qualifying activities


For Green Hydrogen, the company may incur the
CAPEX before the submission of application to
MIDA. However, the CAPEX incurred is not
deemed as the qualifying CAPEX.
c) For renewable energy projects, green technology
assets refer to green technology product
equipment or system and is limited to the new
assets only.
d) Companies within the same group undertaking
the same green qualifying activities as their
parent companies / related companies3 will be
imposed the following conditions:
i) the project shall be implemented in a
building/location separate from other
activities carried out by the holding company
or related companies;
ii) the plant, machinery and equipment used for
this project shall be separated plant,
machinery and equipment and shall not be
transferred from the holding company or
related companies;
iii) all employees of the company shall be
separated from the employees of the parent
company or related companies except for the
management staff and directors of the
company; and
iv) the establishment of this project will not result
in a reduction in the investment of the parent
company or related companies.
e) This incentive is not applicable for the
companies in the same basis period for a year of
assessment if the company for that year of
assessment:
i) has made a claim for reinvestment
allowance under Schedule 7A or investment
allowance under Schedule 7B of Income
Tax Act 1967; or
ii) has been granted any incentive under the
Promotion of Investments Act 1986; or
iii) has been granted an exemption under
paragraph 127(3)(b) or subsection 127(3A)
of Income Tax Act 1967; or
3 For the purpose of this incentive, the definition of related company is based on Section 2 of the PIA
1986, where a related company is defined as a company where at least 20% of its issued share capital
is owned (directly or indirectly) by another company.


iv) has been approved by the Minister an
incentive scheme under any rules made
under section 154 of the Act; or
v) has made a claim for deduction under any
other rules made under Section 154 of
Income Tax Act 1967 except: -
• the rules in relation to allowance under
Schedule 3 to the Act; or
• the Income Tax (Deduction for Audit
Expenditure) Rules 2006 [P.U.(A)
129/2006]; or
• the Income Tax (Deduction for
Expenses in relation to Secretarial Fee
and Tax Filing Fee) Rules 2014 [P.U.(A)
336/2014].
3.2. GITE Solar Leasing a) Company which is incorporated under the
Companies Act, 2016 and resident in Malaysia,
where:
i) the company has been verified by
Sustainable Energy Development
Authority (SEDA) and listed under the
Registered Solar PV Investor (RPVI)
Directory.
ii) the equity of the company must be held by at
least 60% Malaysians.
iii) the company must possess a minimum
installed capacity of 3MW solar PV
projects aggregated under the:
- Net Energy Metering (NEM); or
- Self-Consumption (SelCo) Programme
which have achieved Commercial Operation
Date.
b) The application for tax incentive must be submitted
together with the verification letter from SEDA.
c) Company which has undertaken solar leasing
project(s) and has issued the first sale invoice of
solar leasing project before the application made to
MIDA is not eligible for this incentive.
d) Only one company in the same group is eligible for
GITE-solar leasing. Related companies
undertaking the same solar leasing activity are not
eligible for this incentive.


4. EXISTING COMPANIES APPROVED FOR GITA PROJECT UNDER THE
PREVIOUS SCHEME
Existing companies which were approved for GITA Project under Section
4D, Promotion of Investment Act 1986 or Section 127(3A), Income Tax Act
1967 or Section 127(3)(b), Income Tax Act 1967 are eligible for this tax incentive
subject to the following:
4.1 The company does not undertake the approved project in which no capital
expenditure is incurred and the existing tax incentive approval has been
surrendered.
Note:
• For company which was approved for GITA Project for Business
Purpose, the application for tax incentive to be submitted to MIDA.
• For company which was approved for GITA Project for Own
Consumption, the company may apply for GITA Asset for Own
Consumption to MGTC.
4.2 The company which had been approved with GITA Project and the tax
incentive period has expired is not eligible for this incentive.
4.3 The company which its approval of GITA Project was withdrawn due to non-
compliance, is also not eligible for this incentive.
5. TAX INCENTIVE MECHANISM
5. 1. GITA Project for Business Purpose
a) The company must submit the application of tax incentive to MIDA
before incurring qualifying capital expenditure (CAPEX) for the
proposed project except for Green Hydrogen where the company
may incur the CAPEX before the submission of application to MIDA,
nevertheless the CAPEX incurred is not to be deemed as the qualifying
CAPEX.
b) MIDA will issue a decision letter to the company on the tax incentive
as decided by the National Committee on Investment (NCI).
c) The approved company shall submit the application for
determination of tax incentive effective date to MIDA not later than
24 months from the date of approval letter.
d) The effective date of the tax incentive will be determined based on
the date of the first qualifying capital expenditure (CAPEX)
incurred after the date of application is received by MIDA.


For Green Hydrogen, where the company has incurred the CAPEX
before the submission of application to MIDA, the effective date of
the tax incentive will be determined based on the date of CAPEX
incurred after the date of application received by MIDA.
e) Qualifying CAPEX refers to Schedule 3, Income Tax Act 1967. For
GITA Projects – The qualifying CAPEX of green technology assets
must be new and verified by MGTC.
f) The company is required to submit the application to MIDA for the
purpose of compliance of all conditions imposed as verified by the
external auditors within the tax incentive period.
g) Company shall not submit any claim to IRBM prior to the issuance of
confirmation letter on compliance of all conditions from MIDA.
h) Any unabsorbed allowances in a year of assessment by reason of the
restriction of the allowance to 70% of the statutory income or of an
insufficiency or absence of statutory income of a business can be
carried forward to subsequent years of assessment until fully utilised.
i) The company is allowed to surrender the approved incentive by
notifying MIDA provided that the company is not subjected to non-
compliances.
j) The approval of tax incentive to be withdrawn if the company has failed
to comply with any of the requirement as stated in the approval letter.
k) The tax incentive for GITA Project for Business Purpose to be
considered by the National Committee on Investment (NCI) and
provided under the Income Tax Act, 1967.
5. 2. GITE Solar Leasing
a) The company must submit the application to SEDA to verify the
compliance of pre-requisite conditions as per paragraph 3.2 –
Eligible Application. Upon verification, SEDA will issue the verification
letter to the company.
b) The company then must submit the application of tax incentive to
MIDA together with the verification letter from SEDA. The
submission to MIDA must be made:
i. within 12 months from the date of verification letter from SEDA;
and
ii. before issuance of the first sale invoice for the proposed project.
c) MIDA will issue a decision letter to the company on the tax incentive
as approved by the National Committee on Investment (NCI).


d) The approved company shall submit the application for determination
of tax incentive effective date and compliance of all conditions
imposed as verified by external auditor to SEDA not later than 24
months from the date of approval letter.
e) The effective date of the tax incentive will be determined based on
the year of assessment where the date of the first sales invoice of
the proposed project issued by the company.
f) Company shall not submit any claim to IRBM prior to the issuance of
letter on determination of effective date and compliance of all conditions
from SEDA.
g) The company is required to submit application for annual verification
on compliance of all conditions as verified by external auditor to
SEDA. The application must be submitted within seven (7) months after
the end of each year of assessment throughout the incentive period.
h) The company shall comply with all conditions stipulated in the approval
letter throughout the incentive period.
i) Type of incomes eligible for exemption are:
Solar Power Purchase Solar Leasing
Agreement (PPA)
Type of Income from sales of energy. Income from fixed monthly
income payment (RM/month) in
Tariff rate (RM/kWj) is based
return for the lease of Solar
on agreement between NEM
PV System.
and investors.
j) The company is allowed to surrender the approved incentive by
notifying MIDA provided that the company is not subjected to non-
compliances.
k) The approval of tax incentive to be withdrawn if the company has failed
to comply with any of the requirement as stated in the approval letter.
l) The tax incentive for GITE Solar Leasing to be considered by the
National Committee on Investment (NCI) and provided under the
Income Tax Act, 1967.
6. EFFECTIVE DATE OF SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION
This Guideline is applicable for applications for Green Investment Tax Allowance
(GITA) Project for Business Purposes and Green Income Tax Exemption (GITE)
Solar Leasing received by MIDA from 1 January 2024 until 31 December 2026.


7. APPLICATION SUBMISSION
7.1 Applications for GITA Project for Business Purpose and GITE Solar Leasing
should be made online at https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my.
7.2 Application with incomplete information will not be accepted and will
be returned to the company.
7.3 For further enquiries and clarification, please refer to:
MIDA Website : www.mida.gov.my
Tel. : (603) - 2267 3633
Fax : (603) - 2273 7970
Email : investment@mida.gov.my
7.4 Applications for Green Investment Tax Allowance (GITA) Asset for Own
Consumption should be made to MGTC as follows:
Chief Executive Officer
Malaysian Green Technology and Climate Change Centre (MGTC)
No. 2 Jalan 9/10
Persiaran Usahawan Seksyen 9
43650 Bandar Baru Bangi
Selangor Darul Ehsan
The guideline for this application is applicable in MGTC’s website at
https://www.mgtc.gov.my/.


APPENDIX I
GREEN INVESTMENT TAX ALLOWANCE (GITA) PROJECT FOR BUSINESS
PURPOSE
Qualifying Activities Criteria / Conditions
Tier 1 First five (5) years
Green Hydrogen a) The company must produce green hydrogen from
renewable energy sources.
b) The company must obtain certification for
production of green hydrogen from the Department
of Standards Malaysia or any of the recognised
international certification bodies
c) Fixed asset / investment value.
d) High value jobs / science and technical jobs.
e) Other conditions to be imposed as decided by NCI.
Second five (5) years
a) Project’s spillover:
- High value jobs;
- Local spending; and/or
- Any other conditions to be imposed as decided
by NCI.
Tier 2 Integrated Waste Management (IWM)
i. Integrated Waste a) The company must invest in IWM facility and
Management (IWM) undertake the following activities:
ii. Electric Vehicle (EV) i. waste recycling or waste treatment; and
Charging Station
ii. at least two (2) of the following activities:
- recovery
- composting
- storage
- collection
- disposal
b) The company is not allowed to use imported waste
for its proposed IWM project. The company is only
allowed to utilise waste obtained within Malaysia
including Free Zones/Licensed Manufacturing
Warehouse (FZ/LMW).


Qualifying Activities Criteria / Conditions
c) The company is to abide by the guidelines/
conditions of the relevant Acts, Rules and
Regulations under the respective ministries and
agencies.
d) Other conditions to be imposed as decided by NCI.
Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Station
a) The company or charge point operators (CPO)
must invest in equipment or a combination of
equipment, providing dedicated functions to supply
electric energy from a fixed electrical installation or
supply network to an EV for the purpose of
charging.
b) The CPO of the EV charging station must obtain
Electric Vehicle Charging System (EVCS) licence
under the Provision of Electricity Supply Act 1990
from Energy Commission.
c) CPOs must obtain approval for the installation of
Electric Vehicle Charging Bay (EVCB) from local
councils.
d) Other conditions to be imposed as decided by NCI.
Tier 3 a) The company generates energy from renewable
sources as proposed.
Generation of energy from
renewable sources: b) The company must obtain award Letter from
Sustainable Energy Development Authority (SEDA)
i. Biomass
/ Energy Commission (EC) on the proposed project.
ii. Biogas
c) The equipment/assets used in the GITA projects
iii. Mini Hydro must be owned by the company, recognised and
registered under the MYHijau Mark or have product
iv. Geothermal
verification that is recognized and accepted by
v. Solar
MGTC.
vi. Wind Energy
d) Other conditions to be imposed as decided by NCI.


APPENDIX II
GREEN INCOME TAX EXEMPTION (GITE) SOLAR LEASING
Qualifying Activities Criteria / Conditions to be Imposed
Solar leasing is an activity a) The project must achieve installed capacity as
of providing solar proposed.
photovoltaic system
b) The assets used for solar leasing project must be
leasing services in relation
incorporated in the RPVI balance sheet.
to the implementation of
Net Energy Metering c) The company must employ at least five (5) full-time
Scheme for sales of employees working in Malaysia including at least
electricity or solar two (2) competent personnel4 in green technology.
photovoltaic system
d) The project must derive income from sales of
leasing.
electricity or solar photovoltaic system leasing.
Income derived from other activities is not eligible
for income tax exemption.
e) Exemption is only granted to income generated
within the capacity for each tier. Any income
generated from excess capacity is not eligible for
tax exemption and the company shall keep
separate account.
f) The company must incur adequate amount of
operating expenditure annually in Malaysia to
undertake the proposed green services / projects
for business purposes. This operating expenditure
should include local services for insurance, legal,
banking, ICT and transportation. However, this
amount shall not include the cost of goods sold,
depreciation, interest on borrowings and expenses
that are not directly involved in the company's
proposed activities.
g) Other conditions to be imposed as decided by NCI.
4 Competent personnel means a person who is—
a) registered with a respective professional body or qualifications agency;
b) certified with Continuing Professional Development points by the respective profesional body
or qualifications agency; or
c) actively practising in the respective field
