PIPC
Special Incentive Package www.mida.gov.my
(Manufacturing)
(updated as of 26.11.2024)
GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE
PENGERANG INTEGRATED PETROLEUM COMPLEX (PIPC)
SPECIAL INCENTIVE PACKAGE FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
1. BACKGROUND
1.1 The Pengerang Integrated Petroleum Complex (PIPC) is planned as a
downstream oil and gas hub accommodating oil refineries, oil storage facilities
and petrochemical product manufacturing plants. The PIPC spans across 22,904
acres (equivalent to 9,269 hectares or 92.7 sq. km) of land. The detailed Concept
Masterplan/area coverage is as per Appendix I.
1.2 During the Budget 2024 announcement by the Prime Minister of Malaysia, a
Special Incentive Package was given to the Pengerang Integrated Petroleum
Complex (PIPC) area for companies manufacturing qualifying products.
1.3 The Special Incentive Package for the PIPC is aimed at attracting more potential
investors in the chemicals and petrochemical industry. The development of the
PIPC is also important in order to achieve desired social and environmental
outcomes, which are key to supporting the overall strategic growth of the
economy.
2. TYPE OF INCENTIVE
2.1 The incentive package comprises:
A. Special Tax Rate for a company with capital investment (excluding
land) of at least RM500 million in the manufacturing sector;
i. Tier 1: 5% Special Tax Rate for up to 10 years
ii. Tier 2: 10% Special Tax Rate for up to 10 years


or
Income tax exemption equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance (ITA) for
a company with capital investment (excluding land) of at least RM500
million in the manufacturing sector;
i. Tier 1: Income tax exemption equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance
(ITA) of 100% on the qualifying capital investment (excluding land) for
up to 10 years (5 years + 5 years). The allowance can be offset against
up to 100% of statutory income for each assessment year.
ii. Tier 2: Income tax exemption equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance
(ITA) of 60% on the qualifying capital investment (excluding land) for up
to 10 years (5 years + 5 years). The allowance can be offset against
up to 100% of statutory income for each assessment year.
B. Stamp Duty
Stamp duty exemption on instrument for transfer of land/building or rental
agreement of land/building for qualifying project/activity.
C. Import Duty
Import duty exemption for raw material, machinery, components, spare
parts, and consumables that are used directly for qualifying project/activity.
3. ELIGIBILITY APPLICANT
3.1 The company must be incorporated under the Companies Act 2016 and resident
in Malaysia.
3.2 A new company or an existing company undertaking diversification activities
in relation to the eligible activities/products under this cluster.
3.3 The company is required to have a minimum paid-up capital of RM2.5 million at
the point of submission of application to MIDA.


4. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
4.1 The eligible product(s) / activity(ies) under this cluster are chemical and
petrochemical product(s)1 as below:
i. Base chemical – Methanol, Ethylene, Propylene, Benzene, Aromatics
ii. Organic intermediates – C1 to C6
iii. Specialty chemical
iv. Fertilisers
v. Polymers/plastics
vi. Oleochemical/biochemical
4.2 The tiering tax incentive will be based on an outcome-based approach and
the company is required to fulfil the criteria as per Appendix II or Appendix III.
4.3 The company will need to propose its commitment to MIDA and the evaluation of
tiering determination will be on outcome-based approach.
5. TAX TREATMENT MECHANISM
I. Special Tax Rate
5.1 The company must submit the application to MIDA before the
commencement of operation for the proposed product(s) /
activity(ies). The commencement of operation is defined as the first sales
invoice issued by the company for the proposed product(s) /
activity(ies).
5.2 MIDA will issue a principle approval letter to the company on the tax
incentive for the proposed product(s) / activity(ies) as approved by the
National Committee on Investment (NCI). The principle approval letter will
indicate a tiering approach and outcome-based tax incentives with
minimum and additional conditions imposed for each Tier as per Appendix
II.
Product(s)/activity(ies) which involve simple manufacturing process (such as mixing and blending) is not eligible
for the incentive. The eligible product(s)/activity(ies) may also be subjected to the discretion of both the Minister
of Finance and Minister of Investment, Trade and Industry.


5.3 The company shall submit the application for determination of the
commencement year of assessment (YA) not later than 24 months from the
date of the principle approval letter.
5.4 The commencement YA of the incentive will be determined based on the
YA company commencing the operation for the approved activity.
5.5 The company is required to submit an Annual Compliance Report (ACR) to
MIDA within seven (7) months after the end of each year of assessment
throughout the incentive period.
5.6 The compliance of minimum conditions will entitle the company to enjoy a
Tier 2 tax incentive for the particular year of assessment. Whereas,
compliance with both minimum and additional conditions will entitle the
company to enjoy a Tier 1 tax incentive for that particular year of
assessment.
5.7 In the event that the company fails to comply with the minimum conditions,
the company is not entitled to claim the tax incentive for the particular year
of assessment and will be subject to tax at prevailing rates.
5.8 The Special Tax Rate incentive is to be provided through subsidiary
Legislation under the Income Tax Act, 1967 under Section 65B,
Subsection 6(1A), Paragraph 6(1)(m), Schedule 1 Part XVII, Income Tax
Act 1967 and to be considered in the National Committee of Investment
(NCI).
II. Income Tax Exemption Equivalent to Investment Tax Allowance
5.9 The company must submit the application to MIDA before the
commencement of operation for the proposed product(s) /
activity(ies). The commencement of operation is defined as the first sales
invoice issued by the company for the proposed product(s) /
activity(ies).
5.10 MIDA will issue a principle approval letter to the company on the tax
incentive for the proposed product(s) / activity(ies) as approved by the
National Committee on Investment (NCI). The principle approval letter will
indicate a tiering approach and outcome-based tax incentives with
minimum and additional conditions imposed for each Tier as per Appendix
III.


5.11 The commencement date of the tax incentive will be determined based on
the date of first qualifying capital expenditures (CAPEX)2 incurred for
the approved product(s) / activity (ies) one day after the date of submission
of application, but shall not be earlier than 14 October 2023.
5.12 The company shall submit the following not later than 36 months from the
date of the principle approval letter:
i) application for determination of tax incentive commencement date; and
ii) declaration on the compliance of minimum conditions as verified by the
external auditors.
5.13 In the event that the company fails to submit the application as in para (5.12)
within the stipulated period, the principle approval letter is automatically
cancelled.
5.14 The company shall submit the declaration of compliance with all
minimum and additional conditions as stated in the principle approval
letter and verified by the external auditors to MIDA not later than seven (7)
months after the expiry of the 5-year tax incentive and/or for the 10-year
tax incentive.
5.15 The compliance of minimum conditions will entitle the company to enjoy a
Tier 2 tax incentive. Whereas, compliance with both minimum and additional
conditions will entitle the company to enjoy a Tier 1 tax incentive.
5.16 The investment tax allowance is to be provided through subsidiary
Legislation under Section 127(3)(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1967 and to be
considered in the National Committee of Investment (NCI).
III. Stamp Duty
5.17 The company must submit the application to the Ministry of Finance
upon receiving the principle approval letter from MIDA on the tax incentive.
5.18 The stamp duty exemption is to be provided through subsidiary legislation
under the Stamp Act 1949.
2 Company may incur capital expenditure before the date of submission of application to MIDA. Nevertheless,
the capital expenditure incurred is not to be deemed as a qualifying capital expenditure.


IV. Import Duty
5.19 Companies can be considered import duty and/or sales tax exemption on
machinery, equipment and components which are imported directly or
purchased locally.
5.20 The machinery, equipment and components are new, unused and used
directly in companies’ activities.
5.21 Application must be submitted to MIDA prior to the importation or purchase
of the machinery, equipment and components.
5.22 Only application with a total duty and/or tax exemption value of RM5,000
and above (per submission) will be considered for exemption.
5.23 The import duty exemption is to be provided under subsection 14(2) of the
Customs Act 1967 and the sales tax exemption is to be provided under
subsection 35(3) of the Sales Tax Act 2018 subject to consideration at the
Jawatankuasa Pengecualian Cukai (JPC).
6. EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPLICATION
6.1 Applications for the PIPC Tax Incentive Package received by MIDA from
14 October 2023 until 31 December 2028 are eligible to be considered for this
incentive.
7. APPLICATION SUBMISSION
7.1 The applications should be submitted online at
https://investmalaysia.mida.gov.my.
7.2 Application with incomplete information will not be accepted and will be returned
to the applicant company.
7.3 For enquiries and clarification, please refer to:
MIDA Website : www.mida.gov.my
Tel : (603) – 2267 3633
Fax : 603-2274 7970 / 2273 4204
Email : investment@mida.gov.my


Appendix I
Pengerang Integrated Petroleum Complex (PIPC) Masterplan


Appendix II
Eligibility Criteria for the Special Tax Rate
Special Tax Rate First Five (5) Years Second Five (5) Years
Tier 2 i) Capital expenditure (excluding land) to be i) Incremental cumulative capital expenditure
realised as proposed by the company at the (excluding land) as proposed by the
(10% Tax Rate)
point of submission of the determination of the company; OR at least RM500 million
The company is effective date and cumulative capital capital expenditure incurred in the first 5
required to comply expenditure (excluding land) shall be at least years to be maintained throughout the
to the specified RM500 million by the end of the 5th year of second 5 years period.
minimum the incentive period.
conditions ii) Substantial increase in the number of full-
ii) Adequate3 number of full-time Malaysian time Malaysian employees with high-value
employees with high-value jobs4 as proposed. jobs as proposed.
iii) Number of Managerial, Technical and iii) Substantial increase in the number of
Supervisory levels shall be at least 25% of Managerial, Technical and Supervisory
overall manpower. levels from the total manpower.
iv) Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0)
Technology5. Note:
Note:
• For conditions (ii) and (iii), the determination of a
• Minimum conditions need to be complied with not later substantial increase will be evaluated by MIDA.
than 24 months from the date of principle approval
letter until the expiry of the first five years.
3 Proposals submitted by companies for the number of employees will be evaluated in detail by MIDA and will be deliberated in the National Committee on
Investments (NCI) for decision.
4 High-value jobs refer to the minimum basic salary of RM10,000 per month.
5 Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) Technology refers to machinery / equipment that adapts at least one of Industry 4.0 pillars namely big data analytics,
cloud computing, augmented reality, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing, system integration, simulation, internet of things (IoT), autonomous
robots and advanced materials.


Special Tax Rate First Five (5) Years Second Five (5) Years
• The compliance of minimum conditions will entitle the
company to enjoy a Tier 2 tax incentive for the
particular year of assessment.
i) Capital expenditure (excluding land) to be i) Incremental cumulative capital expenditure
Tier 1
realised as proposed by the company at the (excluding land) as proposed by the
(5% Tax Rate) point of submission of the determination of the company; OR at least RM500 million
effective date and cumulative capital capital expenditure incurred in the first 5
expenditure (excluding land) shall be at least years to be maintained throughout the
The company is RM500 million by the end of the 5th year of second 5 years period.
required to comply
the incentive period.
to the specified
ii) Substantial increase in the number of full-
minimum and ii) Adequate6 number of full-time Malaysian time Malaysian employees with high-value
additional employees with high-value jobs7 as proposed. jobs as proposed.
conditions
iii) Number of Managerial, Technical and iii) Substantial increase in the number of
Supervisory levels shall be at least 25% of Managerial, Technical and Supervisory
overall manpower. levels from the total manpower.
iv) Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) iv) Substantial increase in the number of local
Technology8. suppliers9 or local service providers10
appointed as proposed.
6 Proposals submitted by companies for the number of employees will be evaluated in detail by MIDA and will be deliberated in the National Committee on
Investments (NCI) for decision.
7 High-value jobs refer to the minimum basic salary of RM10,000 per month.
8 Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) Technology refers to machinery / equipment that adapts at least one of Industry 4.0 pillars namely big data analytics,
cloud computing, augmented reality, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing, system integration, simulation, internet of things (IoT), autonomous
robots and advanced materials.
9 Local suppliers refer to the companies incorporated in Malaysia and manufacture goods locally (raw materials, consumables, machinery, equipment, parts and
components).
10 Local service providers refer to the companies incorporated in Malaysia and provide services related to the company’s proposed activities e.g. logistics,
maintenance of plant/machinery/equipment, sterilisation and etc.


Special Tax Rate First Five (5) Years Second Five (5) Years
v) Adoption of Environmental, Social and v) Substantial increase on other conditions
Governance (ESG) programmes e.g. set related to the sustainable economy
energy consumption, recycling activity, development such as education, social,
implementing ethical supply chain accelerate Malaysian SMEs and as stated
management, ethical treatment of suppliers, in the principle approval letter. (e.g.
and adherence to fair labour practices as a key collaboration with higher education
area in its ESG commitment. institution/TVET, number of interns, vendor
development)
vi) Number of local suppliers9 or local service
providers10 appointed as proposed.
Note:
vii) Other conditions related to sustainable
economic development such as education, • For condition (ii until v), the determination of a
social, accelerate Malaysian SMEs and as substantial increase will be evaluated by MIDA.
stated in the principle approval letter. (e.g.
collaboration with higher education
institution/TVET, number of interns, vendor
development)


Appendix III
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Tax Allowance
Investment Tax
First Five (5) Years Second Five (5) Years
Allowance
Tier 2 i) Capital expenditure (excluding land) to be i) Incremental increase of cumulative capital
realised as proposed by the company at expenditure (excluding land) as
(60% of Qualifying
the point of submission of the determination proposed by the company.
CAPEX, offset against
of the effective date and cumulative
100% of statutory
capital expenditure (excluding land) ii) Substantial increase in number of full-time
income)
should be at least RM500 million by the Malaysian employees with high-value jobs
end of the 5th year. as proposed.
The company is
required to comply to ii) Adequate11 number of full-time Malaysian iii) Substantial increase in the number of
the specified minimum employees with high-value jobs12 as Managerial, Technical and Supervisory
conditions proposed. levels from the total manpower.
iii) Number of Managerial, Technical and
Supervisory levels shall be at least 25% of Note:
overall manpower.
• For conditions (ii) and (iii), the determination of a
iv) Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) substantial increase will be evaluated by MIDA.
Technology13.
Note:
• Minimum conditions need to be complied with not
later than 36 months from the date of principle
approval letter until the expiry of the first five years.
11 Proposals submitted by companies for the number of employees will be evaluated in detail by MIDA and will be deliberated in the National Committee on
Investments (NCI) for decision.
12 High-value jobs refer to the minimum basic salary of RM10,000 per month.
13 Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) Technology refers to machinery / equipment that adapts at least one of Industry 4.0 pillars namely big data analytics,
cloud computing, augmented reality, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing, system integration, simulation, internet of things (IoT), autonomous
robots and advanced materials.


Investment Tax
First Five (5) Years Second Five (5) Years
Allowance
• The compliance of minimum conditions will entitle
the company to enjoy a Tier 2 tax incentive during
the incentive period.
i) Capital expenditure (excluding land) to be i) Incremental increase of cumulative capital
Tier 1
realised as proposed by the company at expenditure (excluding land) as
(100% of Qualifying the point of submission of the determination proposed by the company.
CAPEX, offset against of the effective date and cumulative
100% of statutory
capital expenditure (excluding land) ii) Substantial increase in number of full-time
income)
should be at least RM500 million by the Malaysian employees with high-value jobs
end of the 5th year. as proposed.
The company is
ii) Adequate14 number of full-time Malaysian iii) Substantial increase in the number of
required to comply to
employees with high-value jobs15 as Managerial, Technical and Supervisory
the specified minimum
proposed. levels from the total manpower.
and additional
conditions
iii) Number of Managerial, Technical and iv) Substantial increase in the number of local
Supervisory levels shall be at least 25% of suppliers17 or local service providers18
overall manpower. appointed as proposed.
iv) Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) v) Substantial increase on other conditions
Technology16. related to sustainable economic
development such as education, social,
14 Proposals submitted by companies for the number of employees will be evaluated in detail by MIDA and will be deliberated in the National Committee on
Investments (NCI) for decision.
15 High-value jobs refer to the minimum basic salary of RM10,000 per month.
16 Adoption of Industrial Revolution 4.0 (IR4.0) Technology refers to machinery / equipment that adapt at least one of the Industry 4.0 pillars namely big data
analytics, cloud computing, augmented reality, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing, system integration, simulation, internet of things (IoT),
autonomous robots and advanced materials.
17 Local suppliers refer to the companies incorporated in Malaysia and manufacture goods locally (raw materials, consumables, machinery, equipment, parts and
components).
18 Local service providers refer to the companies incorporated in Malaysia and provide services related to the company’s proposed activities e.g. logistics,
maintenance of plant/machinery/equipment, sterilisation and etc.


Investment Tax
First Five (5) Years Second Five (5) Years
Allowance
v) Adoption of Environmental, Social and accelerate Malaysian SMEs and as stated
Governance (ESG) programmes e.g. set in the principle approval letter. (e.g.
energy consumption, recycling activity, collaboration with higher education
implementing ethical supply chain institution/TVET, number of interns,
management, ethical treatment of vendor development)
suppliers, and adherence to fair labour
practices as a key area in its ESG
commitment.
Note:
vi) Number of local suppliers17 or local service
providers18 appointed as proposed. • For condition (ii until v), the determination of a
substantial increase will be evaluated by MIDA.
vii) Other conditions related to sustainable
economic development such as education,
social, accelerate Malaysian SMEs and as
stated in the principle approval letter. (e.g.
collaboration with higher education
institution/TVET, number of interns, vendor
development)
