Doing Business in
Malaysia 2025
Presentation by Name Manually Bold
Month Year
PwC


This guide includes information obtained or derived from a variety of publicly available sources.
PwC has not sought to establish the reliability of these sources or verified such information. All
such information is provided ‘as is’ and PwC does not give any representation or warranty of any
kind (whether expressed or implied) about the suitability, reliability, timeliness, completeness
and accuracy of this publication.
Disclaimer This publication is for general guidance only and should not be construed as professional advice.
Accordingly, it is not intended to form the basis of any decision and you are advised to seek
specific professional advice on any transaction or matter that may be affected by this publication
before making any decision or taking any action.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 2


Foreword
Chapter 1 - Investment environment 05
Chapter 2 - Business formation and the regulatory environment 15
Chapter 3 - Labour relations and social security 23
Chapter 4 - Audit and financial reporting requirements 30
Chapter 5 - Business Taxation 40
Chapter 6 - Personal Taxation 56
Chapter 7 - Taxes on Capital 62
Chapter 8 - Other Taxes 66
About PwC 84
Contents
Glossary 91
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 3


Forward
Resilient and diversified,
the economic appeal of Malaysia
Amidst ongoing global trade tensions, increasing Headline inflation is forecasted to stay moderate, Malaysia's diversified economy, driven by the New
protectionism, technological disruptions, and between 2.0% and 3.5%, backed by prudent fiscal Industrial Master Plan (NIMP) 2030 and supported
growing sustainability concerns, sentiments and monetary policies, yet sensitive to global and by a skilled, multilingual workforce, remains crucial in
regarding Malaysia's growth remain cautiously domestic factors. With the expanded sales and advancing the country up the value chain.
optimistic. This optimism is bolstered by robust services tax (SST) effective July 1, essential spending
As ASEAN Chair, Malaysia has a unique opportunity
domestic demand and sustained growth in might supersede discretionary expenses. Although
to foster deeper regional integration, addressing
household spending. the minimum wage and civil servant salary increases
climate change and advancing collaborative initiatives
are anticipated to boost demand, their impact on
The steady expansion in domestic demand provides in artificial intelligence (AI), ethical data governance,
inflation should remain limited.
a solid buffer against external headwinds, and is a and datacentredevelopment.
key contributor to the expansion of the Malaysian Despite these measures, downside risks persist,
Efforts to enhance the transparency and integrity of
economy by 4.4% in the first quarter of 2025, particularly in light of the reciprocal tariffs
the tax system, such as e-invoicing and the Tax
according to Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) as of 16 announced by the US. In response, the government
Corporate Governance Framework, strengthen
May 2025. Import growth remains robust, driven is committed to diversifying export markets and
Malaysia's appeal as an investor-friendly economy.
by strong demand for capital goods, supported by securing new trade agreements to mitigate the
ongoing investment and trade activities. effects of global trade disruptions.
This guide has been prepared to assist those interested in entering or expanding in the Malaysian market. The coverage of the subjects is not exhaustive but is intended to deal with
some of the more important and/or broad questions that may arise.The material contained in the guide is based on legislation as of June 2025, unless otherwise indicated.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 4


Investment
environment
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 5


Investment environment Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
About Malaysia
Located in Southeast Asia, Malaysia is a federal constitutional
Malaysia
monarchy that shares its borders with Singapore, Thailand,
Country Snapshot
Indonesia, and Brunei. It spans a total land area of about
330,000 km², comparable to that of Japan, Germany,
Finland, and Norway.
330,411 km² Average GDP growth
The country has a diverse and multicultural population of 3.1% per year
total land size
approximately 33.4 million, comprising primarily
over the last 5 years
Bumiputera (Malays and other indigenous peoples), followed
by Chinese and Indian communities.
As a former British colony, English is widely spoken,
especially in business settings. The national language is Population GNI per capita
Malay, or Bahasa Malaysia. Consequently, Malaysia's political 34.2 million USD12,309
and legal frameworks are largely based on British systems.
Malaysia is regarded as one of the more developed among
developing countries and is classified as an upper-middle-
income country, with a GNI per capita of USD 12,309. Other
Majority race is Average inflation
countries in this category include Mexico, Turkey, and Brazil. Bumiputera, 1.9% per year
accounting for
Over the past five years, Malaysia has experienced an average over the last 5 years
63.3%
GDP growth rate of 3.1% annually. It has also maintained a
consistently low inflation rate, averaging 1.9% during the of the population
same period.
Sources: DOSM, BNM (Malaysia’s Central Bank); MOF
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 6


InInvveestsmtmeennt te ennvvirioronnmmeenntt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Location advantage
Well-connected to
major cities in Asia
within an 8-hour flight from
Mumbai, India to Beijing, China.
8-hour flight
Centre of Southeast Asia
a market of 676.6 million people with
a combined GDP of USD3.8 trillion
4-hour flight
Next to one of the world’s
busiest shipping lanes
Straits of Malacca– providing access to the
global supply chain via two key Malaysian ports:
Port Klang and Port of Tanjung Pelepas
2-hour flight
1 Source: ASEAN Key Figures 2024
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 7


Investment environment Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Conducive business environment
23rd
most competitive country globally, Significantly outperformed the emerging Multiracial (multicultural) population,
based on IMD World markets and developing economies (EMDE) and a young workforce
Competitiveness Ranking 2025 benchmark to support your regional operations.
- ranked first among emerging and developing Its three main races comprise of Bumiputera
nations for overall investment2 (including Malays), Chinese, and Indians
Upper-middle income country as
classified by The World Bank
GNI per capita of
Open to foreign investments English is commonly used
MYR54,894 (USD12, 309)1
- there is a large presence of foreign companies to conduct business
(5,000+) from more than 50 countries in Malaysia,
with a cumulative investment (FDI stock) of
Third lowest Cost of Living
in Southeast Asia,
MYR985.1 billion, as at December 20243 An established legal system
- the Malaysian Constitution sets out the legal
based on Mercer’s 2024
framework of the country. Malaysian law largely
Cost of Living Ranking (Kuala Lumpur)
adopts the United Kingdom’s legal system
1 Source: DOSM and the World Bank
2 According to The Milken Institute in the Global Opportunity Index 2025 report
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 8


IInnvveessttmmeenntt e ennvviirroonnmmeenntt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Sustainable economic environment
Growth is expected to remain robust despite global The economy is led by the services and
uncertainties and trade tensions, and unemployment rates manufacturing sectors, similar to advanced economies
have a stable outlook with a slight downtrend
GDP by sector
Real GDP growth and unemployment rate
Agriculture
Construction
6%
4%
Real GDP Growth Unemployment Rate Mining
6%
6.0%
4.0%
Services
2.0% 60% Manufacturing
24%
0.0%
2023a 2024a 2025f 2026f 2027f
(a) actual (f) forecast Source: BMI Research, Jul 2025 Source: BNM, Economic and Monetary Review 2024
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 9


IInnvveessttmmeenntt eennvviirroonnmmeenntt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Sustainable economic environment
Inflation is expected to remain stable, underpinned by prudent High current account balance and trade surplus enhance
fiscal and monetary policies, alongside resilient domestic the economy’s capabilities to withstand external forex shocks.
demand—despite a series of incremental subsidy reforms.
Current Account Balance and Exchange Rate
(MYR/USD, Yearly Average)
Inflation and Lending Rate
Current Account Balance (US$ bn)
Inflation Central Bank Policy Rate
Exchange Rate (MYR/USD, Yearly Average)
4%
15 5
4.5
2%
3.5
0%
2023a 2024a 2025f 2026f 2027f 0 3
2023a 2024a 2025f 2026f 2027f
(a) actual(f) forecast (a) actual (f) forecast
Source: BMI Research, Jul 2025 Source: BMI Research, Jul 2025
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 10


IInnvveessttmmeenntt e ennvviirroonnmmeenntt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Digital economy to drive Malaysia’s development
Digital technology is anticipated to become a key driver of  Development of data centres, including
Malaysia’s digital position
Malaysia’s economy in the coming decade, with its partnerships with global tech companies like
contribution projected to reach 25.5% of GDP by20251. Google, Amazon Web Services and Microsoft.
Digital Readiness2
 Programmes to train students and professionals,
To spearhead the country’s digital transformation, the 96.8%
ensuring a digitally skilled workforce.
government established the Digital Ministry, which
household have
collaborates with agencies like the MDEC. Their focus
Budget 2025 also introduced several digital initiatives: internet access as of 2024
includes developing capabilities in emerging technologies
99.5%
 MYR3.8 billion of financing by BNM to support
such as big data analytics, artificial intelligence (AI), the
entrepreneurs transitioning towards digitalisation,
Internet of Things (IoT), financial technology (FinTech), households have access
data centres, cloud services, and robotics. automation and embracing sustainable and low to mobile phones as of 2024
carbon practices.
To position Malaysia as a leading digital hub in ASEAN,
 MYR1.3 billion for the Ministry of Digital to lead Ranked 36th globally and second in
the government has embarked on several key digital
digital transformation efforts and create secure Southeast Asia on IMD World Digital
initiatives, such as: national digital ecosystem. This includes MYR10 Competitiveness Ranking 2024
 Establishing the National AI Office (NAIO) to drive million towards establishing the National AI Office
progress through applied AI in various sectors, (NAIO). Strong digital economy market,
including healthcare, transportation, agriculture,  MYR1 billion in strategic investment fund aimed at with gross merchandise value expected
public services, education, and MSMEs. to rise up to USD70 billion in value by
enhancing the capacity of local talent and
2035, driven primarily by robust growth
 Advancing AI, blockchain, Web3, 5G networks, and encouraging high-value activities e.g. integrated
in the e-commerce sector 3
cybersecurity, including initiatives like IP360 circuit design services.
Metaverse to develop digital content ecosystems.
 MYR83 million for 5G cyber security initiatives and
additional MYR20 million to combat online fraud.
1 MDEC 2 DOSM 3 e-Conomy SEA Report 2024
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 11


IInnvveessttmmeenntt e ennvviirroonnmmeenntt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Momentum builds for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investments
As ESG concerns among investors have heightened, the Regulators play a crucial role in advancing the ESG Malaysia’s energy transition
Malaysian Government has implemented policies and agenda in Corporate Malaysia. Efforts include the levers
initiatives supporting the country’s climate change following:
pledges and ESG commitments. Here are some key
● Securities Commission Malaysia has
highlights:
established a national-level advisory committee,
● Under the 12th Malaysia Plan, Malaysia has with endorsement from the Ministry of Finance,
Bioenergy
committed to achieving net-zero emissions by to support the implementation of the International
2050 at the earliest. The commitment is Financial Reporting Standards Sustainability
Renewable Green
supported by various initiatives, including the Disclosure Standards in Malaysia.
energy mobility
National Energy Transition Roadmap.
● Bank Negara Malaysia formed the Joint
Energy
● The government has updated its targets to increase Committee on Climate Change (JC3) to facilitate Transition
the share of renewable energy in power collaboration within the Malaysian financial sector Levers
installed capacity to 70% by 2050. to promote a transition towards a low-carbon
Hydrogen Carbon
● Budget 2025 includes sustainable finance economy. JC3's milestones include mandating the 4 capture,
initiatives for a low-carbon economy, providing adoption of the Task Force on Climate-related utilisation
various supports for small and medium enterprises Financial Disclosure (TCFD) reporting framework Energy & storage
(SMEs). by financial institutions by 2024. efficiency
● The New Industrial Manufacturing Plan ● Bursa Malaysia launched Malaysia’s first
(NIMP) 2030 includes initiatives that drive green voluntary carbon market exchange, “The Bursa
manufacturing practices, such as developing the EV Carbon Exchange”, along with its Sustainability
ecosystem, carbon capture, utilisation and storage Reporting Guide and Toolkit (third edition)
(CCUS), and a circular economy framework.
Source: National Energy Transition Roadmap
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 12


IInnvveessttmmeenntt e ennvviirroonnmmeenntt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Diversified international trade
A broad range of trading partners Malaysia's Trading Partners - Exports by relative size 2024
- Malaysia's largest trading partners by volume
Asia North America
include China, Singapore, and the United States.
Malaysia recorded its highest-ever first-quarter
trade, export, and import values from January to
March 2025, marking a 3.6% year-on-year growth in
trade. Exports saw a 4.4% increase over the previous
year, while imports experienced a growth of 2.8%.
United States
Malaysia is one of the most open economies
in the world, with a trade-to-GDP ratio averaging Singapore Japan Europe Others
over 130% since 2010.
ASEAN Australia Chile
Rest of the World
Rest of Netherla
Indonesia
China India Japan Rest of Asia Europe nds Oceania
Korea New Zealand Pakistan Unite Belg
d … ium N
Vietnam India
Turkey RCEP CPTPP Z
S Fr
Ita
Iran* EFTA* EU* China Thailand Korea Philippines Germany ly p… a… Australia R
* Under negotiation / pending ratification Source: Malaysia External Trade Development Corporation,DOSM
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 13


IIInnnvvveeessstttmmmeeennnttt e eennnvvviiirrrooonnnmmmeeennnttt Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Principal government agencies
The following is a non-exhaustive list of government agencies that are most relevant to foreign investors:
Malaysian Investment Companies Ministry of International InvestKL
Development Authority (MIDA) Commission Malaysia (CCM) Trade and Industry (MITI)
MIDA assists and facilitates An agency for incorporating companies MITI holds overall responsibility for An investment promotion agency
companies intending to invest in the and registering businesses. It also all aspects of international trade under MIDA providing providing
manufacturing and services sectors. provides the public with company and and industrial development. 'specialised' facilitation services
business information. for Greater Kuala Lumpur.
Website: mida.gov.my Website: ssm.com.my Website: miti.gov.my Website: investkl.gov.my
InvestSelangor Iskandar Regional Eastern Corridor Economic Region Northern Corridor
Development Authority (IRDA) Development Council (ECERDC) Implementation Authority (NCIA)
Selangor’s investment promotion Government agency responsible for Lead agency driving growth in the Statutory body spearheading
agency offering advisory services planning and coordinating East Coast Economic Region through development in the Northern Corridor
and support for potential and development in Iskandar Malaysia, strategic projects, investment Economic Region (NCER) via policy
expanding investors. The state of ensuring alignment between public facilitation, and sustainable direction, investment promotion, and
Selangor contribute around 26% and private sector initiatives. development. strategic initiatives.
toMalaysia's GDP.
Website: investselangor.my Website: irda.com.my Website: ecerdc.com.my Website: ncer.com.my
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 14


Business formation
and the regulatory
environment
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 15


Business formation and
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
Business formation: types of business entities
Types of entity. The following are the forms of business organisations available in Malaysia.
Company Limited Liability Partnership Partnership or sole proprietorship
Companies are governed by the CA 2016, which provides for three An LLP is an alternative business vehicle regulated All sole proprietorships and partnerships
types of companies to be incorporated: under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2012, (excluding LLPs) are unincorporated and
1. Company limited by shares; combining the characteristics of a company and a must be registered with the Registrar of
2. Company limited by guarantee; or conventional partnership. Businesses under the auspices of the CCM.
3. Unlimited company.
An LLP is a separate legal entity from its partners. As unincorporated entities, sole
In practical terms, almost all companies will be companies limited The liabilities of the partners in an LLP are limited, proprietorships and partnerships have
by shares, i.e., companies with limited liability, with the maximum while the LLP has unlimited capability in unlimited liability. In the case of
liability of a member being limited to the value of their share capital. conducting business and holding property. partnerships, partners are jointly and
Companies may be formed as either private or public companies. severally liable for the debts and
Unlimited companies have no limit on the liability of their members. Two or more individuals or bodies corporate may obligations of the partnership.
form an LLP for any lawful business in accordance
A private company is one that is prohibited by its Constitution with the terms of the LLP Agreement. An LLP may
(formerly referred to as the memorandum and articles of also be formed for the purpose of carrying out
association) from issuing any invitation to the public to subscribe professional services, with the partners being
for shares or debentures of the company or to deposit money with natural persons of the same professional practice
the company. and having in force professional indemnity
insurance approved by the Registrar.
The shareholders/members of a private company shall not exceed
50 and are also restricted in their right to transfer their shares in the An LLP has perpetual succession, and any change
company, as provided in CA 2016. A public company is used when in partners will not affect the existence, rights, or
the intention is to invite the public to subscribe for shares or liabilities of the LLP.
debentures in the company or to deposit money with the company.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 16


Business formation and
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
The Federal Government of Malaysia
Malaysia adopts the constitutional monarchy form of government based on the Westminster system, which consists of three branches.
Legislative Executive Judiciary
The state governments
 Creates laws by passing bills  Although the Monarch is the  The Judiciary is empowered Malaysia is a federation made up of 13 states of which
through the Parliament. Head of State, the executive to interpret laws that are the federal states are Kuala Lumpur, Putrajaya, and
power is vested in the created by the Parliament by Labuan. Nine of these states are headed by hereditary
 The Parliament consists of
cabinet of ministers and is hearing criminal and civil rulers, the Sultans, who serve as constitutional heads
two houses, the House of
led by the Prime Minister. cases in court. of state. The remaining four states are headed by the
Representatives (Dewan
Yang
Rakyat) and the Senate  The cabinet formulates  Headed by the Chief Justice of
Di-Pertua Negeri (governors) who are appointed for
(Dewan Negara). economic policies, sets the Malaysia.
fixed terms of office to serve as constitutional heads
national budget, and
 In most cases, bills are  Court system is based on of state.
proposes and amends laws.
passed by both houses and British common law
assented by the Supreme  There are 28 ministries in principles. Each state has its own written constitution and
an elected legislative assembly. Each state
Head or King (Yang di- total. Among the key
 More information on the
government is led by a Menteri Besar
Pertuan Agong) to become ministries that are relevant
court system is on the next
(Chief Minister) or Premier (only for Sarawak) who is
law. to foreign investors are the
page.
appointed from among the members of the legislative
Ministry of Finance, and
assembly.
Ministry of International
Trade and Industry.
The division of powers between the various state
governments and the Federal Government is defined
by the Federal Constitution, which provides for a
measure of autonomy for the 13 constituent states.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 17


Business formation and
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
Court system
Substantially based on the British legal system and principles of common law.
Specialised statutory tribunals Court system
Besides the ordinary courts of law there are also -------------------------------------------------------------- Federal Court
specialised statutory tribunals - e.g. Industrial (The supreme court)
Court, Labour Court, Tribunal for Consumer
Appellate courts
Claims. These quasi-judicial bodies serve to
provide an alternative, inexpensive and expedited
Court of Appeal
means to settle disputes between parties within
-------------------------------------------------
their specialised jurisdictions.
Appellate court and
High Court
court of first instance*
Syariah Courts
--------------------------------------
There is a parallel system of state Syariah Courts
Sessions Court
which has limited jurisdiction over matters of state
Islamic law. The Syariah Courts have jurisdiction Courts of 4
only over matters involving Muslims only. first instance**
Magistrates’ Court
----------------------
* Cases with value of more than MYR1 million
** Cases with value of less than MYR1 million
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 18


Business formation and
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
Regulatory environment for companies
Malaysia’s doing business environment is governed by a number of regulations to maintain an efficient
and competitive private sector, as well as to protect public interests and various stakeholders.
1. Free and 3. Price control
fair competition and anti-profiteering
The Malaysian Competition Commission The government can penalise businesses
investigates complaints on anti-competition that make “unreasonably high profits”
behaviours, carries out market reviews and on any goods sold or services supplied.
imposes penalties on offenders.
Business
2 Regulatory 3
2. Conduct in 4. Limits on foreign
frameworks
take-overs and mergers equity ownership
The Malaysian Code on Take-Overs and Regulations on specific ownership
Mergers 20161 (issued by the SC and requirements apply depending on
recently revised in 2021) aims to ensure sector. While generally, the government
that all shareholders are treated equally has been relaxing these requirements,
in a take-over and the acquisition of there are a number of key areas where
voting shares (or control of companies) foreign ownership limits remain, such as
takes place in an efficient, competitive in telecommunications, oil and gas and
and informed market. financial services.
1 The Code can be viewed in its entirety on the SC’s website: www.sc.com.my/regulation/guidelines/take-overs-code
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 19


Business formation and
Business formation and the regulatory envirCohapnter m1 eCnhaptter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
Intellectual property (IP) rights
Malaysia conforms with international standards and provides protection to local and foreign investors
- by being signatory to several international treaties, and through local legislation.
Malaysian Legislation Protection for
Agreement on Trade Related
Aspects of Intellectual Patents Act 1983 Patents
Property Rights (TRIPS) Patents (Amendment) Act 2022
makes it mandatory for Patents Regulations 1986
Paris Convention
government to give minimum
Trade Marks Act 2019 Trade Marks
establishes a
levels of protection to IP Trade Marks Regulations 1997
union for the
Trade Descriptions Act 2011
protection of
industrial property Industrial Designs Act 1996 Industrial designs
International Industrial Designs Regulations 1999
treaties Industrial Designs (Amendment) Act 2013
protecting
Copyright Act 1987 Copyrights
IP rights Copyright (Amendment) Act 2022
Berne
Various regulations
Convention
for the protection Geographical Indications Act 2022 (Upon registration) protection of goods
of literary and Geographical Indications Regulations 2001 following the name of the place where the
Patent Cooperation goods are produced, where a given quality,
artistic works
Treaty (PCT) reputation or other characteristic of the goods
is essentially attributable to their geographical
provides a unified
origin.
procedure for filing patent
applications
Layout-Designs of Integrated Circuits Act 2000 Layout designs of integrated circuits
Registration of IP rights can be done through Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia (MyIPO)
Website: myipo.gov.my
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 20


Business formation and
Business formation and the regulatory envirCohapnter m1 eCnhaptter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
Controls on foreign exchange
Malaysia has a system of exchange control measures aimed at monitoring the settlement of foreign currency payments and receipts as well as encouraging the use of
the country’s financial resources for productive purposes in Malaysia. The Financial Services Act 2013 is the main legislation governing dealings and transactions in
foreign currency whilst the Exchange Control Notices issued by the Central Bank of Malaysia, i.e. BNM embody the general permissions and directions of the
Controller of Foreign Exchange. Some of the controls put into place include:
Remittances abroad by residents Investments abroad by residents Borrowings in foreign currency Borrowings in Ringgit by non-residents
Residents are permitted: Investment in foreign currency assets by residents Non-residents are generally permitted to
• To pay in Ringgit to non-residents are subject to the following: Resident entities are generally allowed borrow any amount in Ringgit for the
for settlement of goods and • Resident entities without domestic to borrow in foreign currency as follows: following purposes:
services. Payment must be made Ringgit borrowing are free to invest • Any amount from licensed onshore • Financing activities related to the
into the non-resident’s external onshore and abroad. banks, entities within a group other production and consumption of goods
account or the non-resident than a bank (excluding a non- or services (other than financial
financial institution acting on the • Resident entities with domestic resident company set up solely to services).
non-resident’s behalf. Ringgit borrowing are permitted to obtain foreign currency borrowings
invest using foreign currency funds from non-resident financial • Financing activities related to the
• To pay in foreign currency to non- sourced from conversion of Ringgit or institutions), direct shareholders and construction or purchase of residential
residents for any purpose (other using funds in Trade Foreign Currency issuance of foreign currency debt or commercial properties (other than
than derivatives), including Account, up to MYR50 million per securities to other residents, or purchase of land only).
settlement of goods and services. annum (based on aggregate
investments of entities within a group • Up to a maximum of MYR100 • Settlement of goods and services
of entities with parent-subsidiary million equivalent in aggregate from procured from residents.
relationship). other non-residents. The aggregate
of MYR100 million is shared with
other resident entities within the
resident’s group of entities with
parent-subsidiary relationship.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 21


Business formation and
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
the regulatory environment
Types of accounts
Foreign currency accounts (FCA)
Residents are generally allowed to open FCAs with licensed onshore banks, or non-
resident financial institutions. Resident exporter can retain any amount of export
proceeds in foreign currency in its Trade FCA maintained with a licensed onshore bank
or convert to Ringgit according to its foreign currency and Ringgit cash flow needs
External accounts
Non-residents are allowed to maintain an external account (i.e. account in Ringgit)
with any financial institution in Malaysia. There is no restriction on the amount of
Ringgit funds to be retained in the external accounts.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 22


Labour relations
and social security
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 23


Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Employment Regulations
Employment Act 1995 and The Industrial Relations Act 1967 and
Employment Act (Amendment) 2022 Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act 2020
The provisions of the Employment Act 1955, along The Industrial Relations Act 1967 and the Industrial The Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act 2020 introduced
with the Employment Act (Amendment) 2022, Relations Regulations 1980 form the legal framework important changes aimed at strengthening employee
apply to all individuals who have entered a within which the industrial relations system in Malaysia rights and improving dispute resolution mechanisms.
contract of service; however, employees earning operates. These Acts aims to provide safeguards for the Key enhancements include better collective bargaining
over MYR4,000 per month are not covered by legitimate rights, prerogatives, and interests of employees, processes and extended protections for gig economy workers.
certain excluded sections unless they qualify as employers, and their trade unions, and to ensure that
Covered Employees, which relate to working on trade disputes are settled speedily and justly, so as not to
The Employment (Part-Time Employees)
rest days, overtime payments, statutory prejudice public and national interests.
entitlements to shift allowances, working on public Regulations 2010 (EPTER)
holidays, and statutory entitlements related to The Department of Industrial Relations Malaysia plays a
termination and lay-off benefits. vital role in ensuring harmony in the labour market by The EPTER provides protection for part-time employees who
preventing industrial action through active interventions, are, hitherto, not protected under any labour law. Some of
The Sabah and Sarawak Labour Ordinances consultations, and negotiations. In the case of disputes, the protection and benefits provided under the EPTER
(Amendment) 2025 continue to regulate specific the law allows for voluntary negotiations between trade include payments for hours worked beyond normal hours,
categories of employees who work under a contract of unions and employers, with unresolved issues being paid holidays, paid annual leave, sick leave and weekly rest
service with their employers in these regions, including reported to the Ministry of Human Resources for days for part-time employees who fall within the regulations.
foreign workers in designated occupations. conciliation and potential referral to the Industrial Court. This regulation will require employers to make contributions
The Court's awards are final and legally binding, and to the national EPF and SOCSO for most part-time
For individuals who are not covered by strikes or lockouts are prohibited once a dispute has been employees who are eligible for such contributions.
theEmployment Act or the Ordinances, common law referred to the Court.
principles relating to employment will apply.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 24


Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Employment Regulations
Others Minimum Wage Order Unions
The following legislative enactments / code are The Minimum Wages Order 2022 (“2022 Order”) Omnibus or general workers’ unions are not
relevant in providing for the health, safety and has undergone a revision effective 1 February 2025. permitted, but unions belonging to the same
general well-being of employees: As per this update, the national minimum monthly industry may apply to form a federation of trade
wage is now MYR1,700 for all workers, including unions or become affiliated with the Malaysian
 Factories and Machinery Act 1967 - law relating to foreign employees, regardless of the sector or Trade Unions Congress or the Malaysian Labour
the safety of employees in the use of machinery. location within Malaysia. However, certain Organisation.
exceptions and stipulations apply:
All trade unions are required by law to be
 Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 -
registered with the Registrar of Trade Unions
imposes general duties upon employers, self- • Businesses with fewer than five employees are
and must comply with the requirements of the
employed persons and employees to secure granted a grace period and required to comply
Trade Unions Act 1959. This Act sets out rules
workplace health and safety. with the new minimum wage rate starting from 1
for the conduct of union business, such as the
August 2025.
election of officers, strike ballots and the use of
 Code of Practice on the Prevention and
union funds.
Eradication of Sexual Harassment in the • Public sector employees in Sarawak may be
Workplace - provides guidelines for employers on subject to a minimum wage of MYR1,500, along
the establishment of in-house mechanism at the with an additional allowance, potentially
enterprise level to prevent and eradicate sexual adjusting their total compensation above the
harassment in the workplace. standard rate.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 25


LLaabboouurr rreellaattiioonnss aanndd s soocciiaall sseeccuurriittyy Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Working conditions, wages / salaries and statutory contributions
MIDA publishes on its website at www.mida.gov.my a guide on the Cost of Doing Business in Malaysia
which provides information on regulatory requirements relating to the following:
6. Statutory contributions in respect of employees to the following funds:
Employees’ Provident Fund
The Employees Provident Fund Act 1991 requires and providing notifications regarding the registration status
employers and employees to make monthly contributions of non-Malaysian citizen employees. Updates on the latest
1. Paid leave
to the EPF to secure lump sum payments to employees at developments will be communicated periodically through the
(annual leave, maternity leave, sick leave).
the age of 60 or earlier in the case of incapacity or upon EPF's official channels.
permanent departure from Malaysia.
Social Security Organisation
Currently, contributions are mandatory for employees who SOCSO is an insurance scheme that covers the Employment
2. Paid holiday
are Malaysian citizens or permanent residents. The EPF is Injury and Invalidity Pension Scheme. All Malaysian citizens
expanding mandatory contributions to include non- and permanent residents of Malaysia are covered by the
Malaysian citizen employeeswith a valid work pass Employment Injury Insurance Scheme (EIIS) and Invalidity
3. Normal working hours
(excluding domestic workers), effective from the October Pension Schemes (IPS), which are administered by SOCSO.
(not more than eight hours per day
2025 salary.
or 45 hours per week). All employers who hire foreign workers, including
The standard contribution rates for employees who are expatriates and foreign domestic workers, are required to
Malaysian citizens or permanent residents require register and contribute to EIIS and IPS (effective 1 July
4. Payment for overtime work
employers to contribute either 12% or 13%, depending on 2024) under SOCSO. A monthly contribution must be made
(normal working days, rest days, public holidays).
the income threshold, while employees contribute 11%. The for each eligible employee.
EPF has proposed a new contribution rate of 2% for non-
Employment Insurance System (EIS)
5. Salaries (maximum and minimum) Malaysian citizen employees, applicable to both employer
EIS is a social security network aimed at helping workers
and employee shares.
for executives and non-executives
who lost their jobs with financial assistance and to seek new
in the manufacturing sector.
The EPF is currently streamlining the registration process jobs. EIS is administered by SOCSO. It is mandatory for all
for non-Malaysian citizen employees. This includes private sector employers to make monthly contribution for
implementing conditions for automatic registration each of their eligible employees.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 26


LLaabboouurr rreellaattiioonnss aanndd s soocciiaall sseeccuurriittyy Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Human Resources Development Corporation (HRDC)
HRDC provides financial assistance for training by contributing employers under certain designated training schemes.
HRDC provides financial assistance for
training by contributing employers under
The HRDC contribution rate is
certain designated training schemes. The
of the local employee’s
employer that fall under the industries listed 1 %
monthly wages.
by HRDC are required to register with the
HRDC and contribute in respect of employees
who are Malaysian citizens.
The coverage includes Malaysian employers
across all industries (excluding the Federal
and State Government, statutory bodies and
Non-Governmental Organisations with social
and welfare activities) with a minimum of ten
local employees. The HRDC contribution rate
is 1% of the employee’s monthly wages.
Additionally, employers across all sectors
(excluding those mentioned above) with five to
nine local employees will be given the option
to contribute to HRDC at 0.5% of the local
employee’s monthly wages.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 27


LLaabboouurr rreellaattiioonnss aanndd s soocciiaall sseeccuurriittyy Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Foreign personnel
Approval for expatriate posts Labour market testing for
and / or support letter employment of foreign nationals
The application for expatriate employment pass is through Employers not under the purview of the agencies / To ensure that the employment for Malaysians are
the Xpats Gateway system, a centralised Single Window bodies can proceed to apply directly to the protected, there is a job advertisement requirement for the
Platform (SWP) for companies under the purview of expatriate committee or Immigration Department hiring of expatriates under an employment pass.
respective approving agencies / regulatory bodies. Malaysia. Do note that different rules apply for However, the following categories are automatically
employment of foreign personnel in East Malaysia. exempted from the job advertisement requirement:
This system is accessible via the Expatriate Services Division i) Important positions (C-Suite & Key Post).
online system at https://esd.imi.gov.my/. The estimated The following minimum paid-up share capital ii) Positions with basic salary of MYR15,000 and above
processing time is within ten working days upon submission requirements must be fulfilled before an application iii) Representative Office/ Regional Office.
of complete documents. for an expatriate position can be processed by the iv) Investors / Shareholders / Owners of the business.
expatriate committee: v) Corporate transfers / Placements / Trade Agreements.
To-date, a total of 28 approving agencies / regulatory bodies vi) International Organisation subjected to International
have been onboarded onto SWP, and among them are: Organisation Act (Privileges and Immunities) [Act
250,000 350,000
 MIDA – for manufacturing sector, selected services MYR MYR 485].
sector, Representative / Regional Office in Peninsular 100% Malaysian owned Malaysian and foreign vii) Sports sector i.e. recruitment of athletes / professional
company owned company
Malaysia. to join any sport organisation or club in Malaysia.
 BNM – posts in banking, finance, and insurance sectors. viii) Renewal of employment pass (provided job scope
 SC – employment in securities and share market. remains unchanged).
500,000 1,000,000
MYR MYR
 Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) – for Companies are required to advertise the position on the
100% foreign Company undertaking
expatriates in construction industry. MyFutureJobs portal for at least 14 days, conduct the
owned company distributive trade and
 Ministry of Education – for education sector. screening and interviews, and thereafter to submit the
involved in the sub-sectors
 Ministry of Tourism, Arts & Culture – for tourism sector. of unregulated services Hiring Outcome Report to obtain the letter from SOCSO.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 28


LLaabboouurr rreellaattiioonnss aanndd s soocciiaall sseeccuurriittyy Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Prior approval from Department of
Labour of Peninsular Malaysia (JTKSM)
An employer seeking to employ foreign personnel (non-citizens and non-permanent
residents of Malaysia) are required under the Employment Act to obtain prior
approval from JTKSM before employing the foreign personnel.
Companies applying for Employment Pass for their foreign expatriates would have
to submit an application via the ePPAx system (Foreign Workers Integrated
Management System) at www.eppax.gov.my to obtain the approval from JTKSM.
The validity period of the JTKSM approval is six months from the issuance date of
the approval through the ePPAx system. This email notification serves as one of the
documents required by the approving agencies/regulatory bodies.
Please note that application process to obtain approval from JTKSM for foreign
expatriates, other than those under the Employment Pass, would differ. Please refer
to the JTKSM website for details https://jtksm.mohr.gov.my/
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 29


Audit and financial
reporting requirements
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 30


ALuadbiotu arn rde lfaintiaonncsi aaln d
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
rseopcoiartl isnegc urerqituyirements
Statutory requirements for Malaysian-incorporated companies
Accounting and other records Statutory registers Financial statements
Every company incorporated under the CA 2016 CA 2016 requires Malaysian incorporated companies The directors must present a set of financial
is required to keep accounting and other records to maintain various statutory registers (e.g. registers statements in accordance with the approved
so as to sufficiently explain the transactions and of members, registers of directors, managers and accounting standards issued or adopted by the
financial position of the company and to enable secretaries, register of debenture holders, register of Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (MASB)
preparation of financial statements which shows directors’ shareholding and register of charges). and the requirements of the CA 2016.
a true and fair view of the company to be Effective from 1 April 2024, all companies are also
conveniently and properly audited. All required to maintain a register of beneficial owners. The financial statements or, where applicable,
transactions must be recorded within 60 days of All statutory registers should be kept at the registered consolidated financial statements shall give a true
completion. These accounting and other records office of the company or any other place in Malaysia and fair view of the financial position as at the end
are the responsibility of the company’s directors as notified to the Registrar of the CCM (“Registrar”). of the financial year, and of the financial
and must be kept at the company’s registered performance and cash flows for the financial year of
office (which must be in Malaysia) or such other System of internal control the company or the group.
place as the directors think fit. The accounting The directors of a public company or a subsidiary of a
and other records are to be retained for seven public company shall have in place a system of
years after the completion of the transactions or internal control that will provide reasonable
operations to which they relate, and must be assurance that the assets of the company are
made available for inspection by the directors at safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or
all times. disposition, to give a proper account of assets and
that all transactions are properly authorised and are
recorded as necessary to enable the preparation of
true and fair view of the financial statements of the
company.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 31


Audit and financial
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Statutory requirements for Malaysian-incorporated companies
Statement by directors and statutory declaration Duty of circulation and lodgement of financial statements and directors’ reports
The financial statements or, where applicable, the The directors of every company must prepare financial statements within 18 months from the date of
consolidated financial statements shall be accompanied incorporation and subsequently within six months of the company’s financial year end.
by:
A private company must circulate its financial statements and directors’ report to its shareholders,
A statement signed by at least two directors and in the
1 auditors, debenture holders, and every person who is entitled to receive notice of general meetings within
case of a sole director, by that director in accordance with
six months of the company’s financial year end and lodge with the Registrar within 30 days from the
the resolution of the board of director(s) stating whether
date of the circulation. Whereas a public company must circulate its financial statements and directors’
in their or his opinion the financial statements or, where
report to its members at least 21 days before its annual general meeting and lodge with the Registrar
applicable, the consolidated financial statements is or are
within 30 days from its annual general meeting. Effective 1 June 2025, the lodgement must be filed
drawn up in accordance with the applicable accounting
electronically via Malaysian Business Reporting System 2.0 (“MBRS 2.0”), an online submission
standards, to give a true and fair view of the financial
platform.
position and financial performance of the company and
of the group.
All amounts shown in the financial statements and directors’ reports shall be presented in Malaysian
currency and if such financial statements and reports are in a language other than the national language or
A statutory declaration by a director or, where the
English language, there must be a translation in the national language or English language (certified to be
director is not primarily responsible for the financial
a correct translation by the Registrar) annexed to such financial statements and reports.
management of the company, by the person responsible
in setting forth his opinion, as to the correctness of the Auditor’s report
financial statements and attested by the Commissioner The financial statements should be duly audited by an approved auditor except for those private companies
for Oaths. qualified and elected for audit exemption.
Directors’ report
The auditor’s report shall state whether the financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance
A directors’ report must be attached to every set of financial
with the applicable approved accounting standards and the CA 2016 so as to give a true and fair view of the
statements. The matters required to be covered in the directors’
financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the group and of the company.
report are set out in section 253 and Fifth Schedule of the CA 2016.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 32


Audit and financial
Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Additional disclosure requirements for public companies listed on Bursa Malaysia (PLCs)
Disclosure obligation of PLCs according to listing Corporate governance
requirements of Bursa Malaysia disclosure by PLCs
PLCs are required to make relevant disclosures PLCs are required to disclose their compliance with
(including sustainability reporting) in their annual the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
reports in accordance with the Listing Requirements (MCCG) in their annual reports. The MCCG which is
of Bursa Malaysia. The timeline for filing annual published by the SC sets out three key principles of
reports with the stock exchange is within four months good corporate governance, namely, board leadership
from the close of financial year. and effectiveness; effective audit and risk
management; and integrity in corporate reporting and
PLCs are also required to announce the interim meaningful relationship with stakeholders.
financial report on a quarterly basis to their
shareholders within two months after the end of each The MCCG adopts the “apply or explain an alternative”
quarter. approach in which a PLC is required to provide an
explanation of how the PLC has applied the best
PLCs must ensure material information is practices. When there are departures from best
disseminated on a timely basis in accordance with the practices, a PLC is required to disclose the alternative
manner as set out in the Listing Requirements of practice it has adopted to meet the intended outcome
Bursa Malaysia. of the best practices.
In addition, for larger PLCs, they are required to
disclose the intended action plan and the related
timeframe for the adoption of the best practices.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 33


Audit and financial
Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Sustainability reporting requirements for Malaysian Companies
Implementation of National Sustainability Reporting Framework (NSRF)
On 24 September 2024, the Advisory Committee on Sustainability Reporting (ACSR) released the NSRF addressing the use of the IFRS® Sustainability
Disclosure Standards as issued by the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) as the baseline for sustainability reporting by listed issuers
and non-listed companies with revenue above MYR2 billion.
Following the launch of the NSRF, Bursa Malaysia has on 23 December 2024 amended the Main Market Listing Requirements and ACE Market Listing
Requirements to require a sustainability statement in accordance with IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial
Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures (collectively, the “IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards”) to be included in the annual report.
The sustainability reporting requirements as set out in the NSRF include additional transition reliefs ( in addition to transition reliefs available in the
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards) and will be implemented in stages based on the size of the applicable entities, as set out below:
Applicable entities Effective Date(s)
Group 1: Main Market listed Issuers with Applicable for Sustainability Statement in annual report
market capitalisation of MYR2 billion and above issued for FYE on or after 31 December 2025
Group 2: Main Market listed Issuers Applicable for Sustainability Statement in annual report
(other than those in Group 1) issued for FYE on or after 31 December 2026
Group 3: Ace Market listed Issuers and non-listed Applicable for Sustainability Statement in annual report
companies with annual revenue ofMYR2 billion or above issued for FYE on or after 31 December 2027
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 34


Audit and financial
Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Statutory requirements for foreign companies carrying on business within Malaysia
Accounting and other records Filing requirements
A foreign company desiring to establish a place of business or to carry on A foreign company is required to lodge with the Registrar, within two months
business within Malaysia is required by the CA 2016 to register itself with the of its annual general meeting, a copy of its financial statements and other
Registrar. documents required to be attached to its financial statements by the law
applicable to the company in its place of incorporation or origin, and a duly
The CA 2016 requires the accounting and other records of a foreign company’s audited statement showing the foreign company’s assets used in and liabilities
operations in Malaysia to be kept in Malaysia that will sufficiently explain the arising out of its operations in Malaysia as at the date to which the financial
transactions and financial position of the foreign company arising out of its statements were made up.
operations in Malaysia and shall cause these records to be kept in such a manner
as to enable them to be conveniently and properly audited. All transactions must Where the foreign company is not required to hold an annual general meeting and
be recorded within 60 days of completion. prepare a set of financial statements by the law of the place of its incorporation,
the company is required to prepare a set of financial statements containing such
Statutory registers particulars as if it were a public company incorporated in Malaysia.
CA 2016 mandates that a foreign company registered under the CA 2016, which
has a share capital and includes any member who is resident in Malaysia, is Financial statements
required to maintain a branch register of members at its registered office in The requirement of financial statements is similar to those companies
Malaysia. incorporated in Malaysia. In addition, foreign companies that are listed on Bursa
Malaysia can apply the acceptable internationally recognised accounting
Effective from 1 April 2024, foreign companies are also required to maintain at standards or MASB approved accounting standards, and have to comply with the
their registered office a register of beneficial owners. disclosure requirements stated in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 35


Audit and financial
Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Financial reporting framework in Malaysia
There are two financial reporting frameworks in Malaysia for the preparation of financial statements. A private entity is a private company as defined in section
2 of the CA 2016 that:
a) is not itself required to prepare or lodge any financial
1 MASB Approved Accounting 2 MASB Approved Accounting statements under any law administered by the SC or
Standards for Entities other Standards for Private Entities BNM, and
than Private Entities Private Entities shall comply with b) is not a subsidiary or associate of, or jointly controlled
Entities other than Private Entities either: by, an entity which is required to prepare or lodge any
shall apply the Malaysian Financial  Malaysian Private Entities financial statements under any law administered by
Reporting Standards (MFRS) Reporting Standards (MPERS) in the SC or BNM.
framework which is identical to their entirety. The MPERS is based
the IFRS®Accounting Standards. on the IFRS for SMEs® Accounting Notwithstanding the above, a private company that is
Standard issued by the itself, or is a subsidiary or associate of, or jointly controlled
International Accounting by, an entity that is a management company as defined in
Standards Board (IASB) except for section 2 of the Interest Schemes Act 2016 is not a private
property development activities, or entity.
 MFRS in their entirety. A company may only be treated as a private entity in
relation to such annual periods or interim periods
throughout which it is a private entity.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 36


Audit and financial
Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Auditing requirements
Audit requirements for public companies Audit requirements for private companies
The directors of a public company must appoint an The directors of a private company (other than those
auditor at any time before the first annual general companies that meet the audit exemption criteria and
meeting of the company or to fill a casual vacancy in the have elected for the audit exemption) must appoint an
office of auditor. If the directors fail to appoint an auditor at least 30 days before the end of the period
auditor, the shareholders must appoint an auditor by for the submission of the first financial statements to
ordinary resolution. the Registrar (for newly incorporated companies) or to
fill a casual vacancy in the office of auditor.
The appointment and fixing of remuneration of auditors
must then be tabled at each annual general meeting for If the directors fail to appoint an auditor, the
shareholders’ approval. shareholders must appoint an auditor by ordinary
resolution. An auditor must be appointed 30 days
After the first annual general meeting, the shareholders before the expiry of the period allowed for lodgement
have the right to appoint an auditor by ordinary of the previous year’s financial statements with the
resolution at the annual general meeting or when the Registrar.
company fails to appoint an auditor at an annual
general meeting. If a private company fails to appoint an auditor, the
Registrar has the power to appoint one or more
If a public company fails to appoint an auditor, the auditors upon application in writing from any
Registrar has the power to appoint one or more auditors shareholder of the company.
upon application in writing from any shareholder of the
company.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 37


Audit and financial
Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Audit exemption for private companies
Pursuant to the CA 2016, the Registrar has the power to exempt any private company from the
requirement to appoint an auditor according to the conditions as determined by the Registrar.
On 16 December 2024, CCM announced the new audit exemption criteria for private companies through Practice Directive 10/2024.
Under the revised framework,private companiesseeking an audit exemption must fulfil any two out of the following three thresholds:
1 Annual revenue 2 Total assets 3 Number of employees
The annual revenue of the company during the current The total assets of the company in the current statement The number of employees at the end of the current
financial year and in the immediate past two financial of financial position and in the immediate past two financial year and in the immediate past two financial
years do not exceed MYR3 million; financial years do not exceed MYR3 million; or years do not exceed 30.
In addition, companies that have been dormant since their incorporation or during the current and immediate past financial year,and are exempt from audit requirement under previous audit
exemption qualifying criteria, will continue to be exempt under the new Practice Directive. However, the audit exemption does not apply to foreign companies, public companies, subsidiaries
ofpublic companies and exempt private companies.
To facilitate the transition to the revised framework,the threshold criteria for audit exemption will be implemented in phases. The adoption will begin with lower thresholds, which will
begradually increased over a three-year period, as summarised in the table below:
Year 2025 (Phase 1) 2026 (Phase 2) 2027 (Phase 3)
Financial period Commencing on or after 1 January until 31 Commencing on or after 1 January until 31 Commencing on or after
December 2025 December 2026 1 January 2027
Threshold
1. Annual revenue(MYR) 1 million 2 million 3 million
2. Total assets (MYR) 1 million 2 million 3 million
3. Number of employees 10 20 30
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 38


Audit and financial
Labour relations and social security Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
reporting requirements
Audit exemption for private companies (cont’d)
Application for audit exemption
Any company that elects for audit exemption
must circulate and lodge its unaudited financial Statutory audit
statements with the Registrar accompanied
with the required certificate in accordance with Approved standards on auditing
the requirements of CA 2016. The unaudited An audit of financial statements of a company
financial statements prepared shall comply incorporated under the CA 2016 in Malaysia is
with applicable approved accounting conducted in accordance with approved
standards, and shall be lodged together with standards on auditing in Malaysia, which are
the directors’ report, statement by directors word-for-word consistent with the International
and statutory declaration. The documents and Standards on Auditing (ISA) issued by the
exemption application must be lodged via International Auditing and Assurance
MBRS 2.0, an online submission platform. Standards Board (IAASB).
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 39


Business
Taxation
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 40


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Principal taxes
The principal taxes are shown below:
Taxes on income Taxes on transactions
1. Income tax 1. Customs and excise duties
2. Capital gain tax* 2. Sales tax
3. Petroleum income tax 3. Service tax
* Refer to Taxes on Capital chapter
4. Entertainment duty
5. Stamp duty
6. Windfall profit levy
7. Contract levy
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 41


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Income tax
Scope of tax Classes of taxpayers Taxable income and gains
Income tax is generally imposed on income accruing in or The principal classes of domestic and foreign The sources of income subject to tax include those
derived from Malaysia. taxpayers covered by the income tax legislation are listed below:
Income tax is also imposed on income derived from companies, individuals, trade associations, co-
outside Malaysia and received in Malaysia for residents. operative societies, trusts, and estates.  Gains or profits from any trade, business,
However, subject to conditions, the following foreign- Generally, partnerships are not taxable entities. profession, or vocation.
sourced income received in Malaysia are exempted from They are treated as conduits where the partners, and  Gains or profits from the disposal of capital
income tax: not the partnership, are taxed on the partnership assets.*
income. However, an LLP is given the same tax  Gains or profits from an employment, including
 Dividend income received by resident companies, treatment as a company. allowances and benefits-in-kind.
LLPs, and individuals (in respect of dividend income  Dividends, interest and discounts.
received through a partnership business in Malaysia)  Rents, royalties and premiums.
until 31 December 2026.  Pensions, annuities and other periodic payments.
 All classes of income received by resident individuals  Any gains or profits not falling within the gains
(excluding a source of income from a partnership listed above.
business in Malaysia, which is received in Malaysia
from outside Malaysia) until 31 December 2036. * Refer to Taxes on Capital chapter
 All classes of income received by a resident unit trust
that is not a REIT or Property Trust Fund listed on
Bursa Malaysia, from 1 January 2024 until 31
December 2026.
Resident companies carrying on a business of air / sea
transport, banking or insurance are generally subject to
income tax on income wherever accruing or derived
(worldwide scope).
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 42


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Corporate tax system
Residence of companies Foreign corporations – liability to tax
A company is tax resident in Malaysia for the basis year for a YA if at any time Foreign corporations (similar to Malaysian corporations) are taxed on income accruing
during the basis year, the management and control of its affairs are exercised in in or derived from Malaysia. A broad basis for determining whether or not business
Malaysia. Generally, a company would be regarded as resident in Malaysia if at profits are derived from Malaysia is to determine whether the foreign corporation is
any time during the basis period for a YA, at least one meeting of the board of “trading within” Malaysia (taxable) or “trading with” Malaysia (non-taxable).
directors is held in Malaysia concerning the management and control of the
company. If a double taxation agreement with the home country of the foreign corporation is in
force, the taxation of business profits derived by the foreign corporation is limited to
Year of assessment and basis period the profits that are attributable to its permanent establishment situated in Malaysia.
The YA is the year coinciding with the calendar year. For example, the YA 2025 is
With respect to income such as royalties, interest or service fees that is not attributable
the year ending 31 December 2025. The basis period for a business source is
to a business carried on in Malaysia, the tax liability of the non-resident will be settled
normally the financial year ending in that particular YA. For example, the basis
by way of withholding tax deducted by the paying entity. For example, a withholding
period for YA 2025 for a business which closes its accounts on 30 June 2025, is
tax at the rate of 10% is imposed on amounts received by a non-resident person for
the financial year ending 30 June 2025. All non-business sources of income of a
provision of any advice, assistance or services rendered in Malaysia (not limited to
company are also assessed on the basis of the financial year.
services of technical or management in nature), or the provision of services relating to
the installation or operation of any apparatus or plant. For more details, please refer to
Taxation of shareholders
the section on withholding tax.
Under the single-tier system adopted by Malaysia, tax on a company’s profits is a
final tax. Dividends are exempt in the hands of shareholders, and companies are
For non-resident contractors that perform services in Malaysia for an extended
not required to deduct tax at source from dividends distributed to shareholders.
duration of time, a withholding tax of 13% may apply.
However, with effective from YA 2025, a 2% dividend tax will apply on individuals
(refer to Chapter 6)
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 43


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Rates of tax
Resident companies Non-resident companies Withholding tax (WHT)
Resident companies are taxed at the rate of 24%. Non-resident companies are taxed at the rate of 24% Payments of the said types of income to non-
However, a resident company with paid-up capital of on their business income. residents (except for dividends) are subject to
MYR2.5 million or less, and with gross business income WHT which is due and payable to the IRB within
Certain income received by a non-resident company
of not more than MYR50 million, is taxed at the one month after paying or crediting such
that is not attributable to a business carried on by
following rates (provided that specified conditions are payments. The rates of WHT are as shown in the
that non-resident in Malaysia is subject to tax at the
met): table, except where the DTA between Malaysia
following rates (unless the relevant double taxation
and the country in which the recipient is resident
agreement (DTA) provides some other rate):
provides for a lower rate, in which case the DTA
Chargeable MYR Rate (%)
rate would be the WHT rate.
income (YA 2025)
Income Rate (%)
On the first 150,000 15 There is no WHT on dividends paid by Malaysian
Royalty 10 companies.
On the next 450,000 17
Rental of movable property 10
In excess of 600,000 24
Advice, assistance or services 10
rendered in Malaysia
To be eligible for the above preferential rate, no more
Interest 15
than 20% of the paid-up capital of the company should
be owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more
Dividends Exempt
companies incorporated outside Malaysia, or one or
more non-Malaysian citizens.
Income other than the above 10
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 44


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Gross income and Interest expenses
profits from business Earning Stripping Rules (ESR) apply on interest
expense (of more than MYR500,000 in a basis period)
Gross income and profits which are subject to income
in connection with or on any financial assistance
tax is generally based on the audited financial
obtained in cross-border controlled transactions
statements of the company. Adjustments will be made
(as defined). Under the ESR, the amount of allowable
for non-taxable and non-tax-deductible items.
interest deduction is limited to 20% of the Tax-
EBITDA (earnings before income tax, depreciation
Non-taxable income
and amortisation) from each of the sources consisting
Most capital receipts are non-taxable except for
of a business.
certain properties and shares in unlisted companies
(see Chapter 7). Certain types of income may also be
Capital allowances and industrial
specifically exempted by statute. “Single-tier”
dividends as well as dividends paid out of tax-exempt building allowances (IBA)
income received by a corporation are exempt from tax The accounting depreciation charged on buildings,
in the hands of shareholders. plant and machinery, furniture, office equipment and
motor vehicles is not deductible for tax purposes. The
Deductible expenses law, however, provides for CA and IBA to be claimed
as a deduction on capital expenditure incurred which
Deductions are allowed for all outgoings and expenses
qualifies as plant (e.g. equipment, machinery,
incurred wholly and exclusively in producing gross
furniture) and industrial buildings (e.g. factory)
income, unless specifically disallowed. Non-allowable
respectively. The allowance is given in the form of an
expenses include domestic or private expenses,
initial allowance in the year the expenditure is
income tax or similar taxes, pre-incorporation,
incurred and annual allowance at prescribed rates,
preliminary or start up expenses, capital withdrawn,
until the qualifying expenditure is fully claimed.
or capital expenditure on improvements.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 45


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
The broad categories of qualifying expenditure together with the prescribed CA and IBA rates are set out below:
Qualifying asset Initial allowance (%) Annual allowance (%)
Industrial building, whether constructed or purchased 10 3
Heavy machinery 20 20
General plant and machinery 20 14
Furniture and fixtures 20 10
Office equipment 20 10
Motor vehicles* 20 20
Accelerated CA is available for certain types of
Small value assets of less than MYR2,000 each - 100 industrial buildings, such as buildings used as a school
(generally, subject to a maximum total cost of MYR20,000) or an educational institution, and plant and machinery
such as computers, information technology equipment,
*The qualifying expenditure on motor vehicles not licensed for commercial transportation of goods or passengers is software, environmental protection equipment and
restricted to MYR50,000. However, for new vehicles, where the “on-the-road price” of the vehicle does not exceed waste recycling equipment.
MYR150,000, the maximum qualifying expenditure is restricted to MYR100,000.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 46


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Plantations and forests Deduction of CA
Expenditure on new planting (as distinct from CA on assets used in one business cannot be
expenditure on replanting, which is deductible) deducted against income from another business, or
and expenditure on the construction of roads in a against income from other non-business sources.
plantation, qualify for an agriculture allowance of
When there is insufficient adjusted income to absorb
50% of the cost for two years.
the full amount of allowances available, the
unutilised amount is carried forward for deduction
Expenditure on the construction of roads in a
against future business income from the same
forest, or of buildings that are likely to be of little or
source.
no value when the plantation ceases to be worked,
or when timber ceases to be extracted, qualifies for
For a dormant company, the unutilised CA will be
an agriculture allowance of 10% of the cost for ten
disregarded if there is a substantial change in
years.
shareholders.
The cost of construction of buildings used for staff
welfare or as living accommodation, qualifies for an
agriculture allowance of 20% of the cost for five
years.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 47


BBuussiinneessss T Taaxxaattiioonn Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Losses Group relief Capital gains and other taxes
Business losses can be set off against income Group relief is available to all locally Tax is imposed on gains from disposal of
from all sources in the current year. incorporated, resident companies that fulfill unlisted shares, property situated outside
certain conditions. Malaysia, and real property, refer to Chapter 7
Unutilised business losses in a YA can be
for more details. For other taxes, please refer to
carried forward for a maximum period of ten
A company that qualifies is allowed to surrender Chapter 8.
consecutive YAs to be utilised against income
a maximum of 70% of its adjusted loss for a YA
from any business source. For a dormant
to one or more related companies. The period in
company, the unutilised business losses will be
which a company may surrender its adjusted loss
disregarded if there is a substantial change in
is limited to the first three consecutive YAs after
shareholders.
having completed its first 12-month basis period
from commencement of its operations.
Companies opting for group relief must make an
irrevocable election to surrender or claim the tax
loss in the income tax return to be filed with the
IRB for that YA.
Companies currently enjoying certain incentives
such as pioneer status, investment tax allowance,
reinvestment allowance, etc. are not eligible for
group relief.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 48


BBuussiinneessss T Taaxxaattiioonn Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Tax administration
Tax identification number Tax collection Public rulings and Tax audit process
Any person who is a citizen aged 18 years Companies are required to furnish advance rulings The general tax audit framework outlines
and above, or is assessable and estimates of their tax payable for a YA no the rights and responsibilities of audit
To facilitate compliance with tax laws, the
chargeable to tax, or is required to later than 30 days before the beginning of officers, taxpayers and tax agents in
Director General of Inland Revenue (DGIR)
furnish an income tax return, will be the basis period. However, a newly respect of a tax audit. A tax audit may
is empowered by law to issue public rulings.
assigned a tax identification number established company with paid-up capital cover a period of one to three YAs
Public rulings set out the interpretation of the
(TIN), i.e. the income tax reference of MYR2.5 million or less, that meets determined in accordance with the audit
DGIR in respect of tax law, and the policy and
number. The TIN will be used for certain specified conditions, is exempted focus. The YAs to be covered in a tax
procedures that are to be applied. Public
purposes of income tax, RPGT and from this requirement for two years, audit may, however, be extended
rulings are binding on the DGIR but a
stamp duty matters. beginning from the YA in which the depending on the issues identified during
taxpayer who has applied the treatment as set
company commences operations. A an audit.
out in a particular public ruling may still
Submission of returns revised estimate can be submitted in the appeal against an assessment which is based
and assessments sixth and / or ninth month of the basis on the public ruling. All public rulings may be Statute of limitation
period for a YA.
downloaded from the IRB’s website at Additional assessments can be made
Companies are required to submit a
www.hasil.gov.my. within five years after the expiration of
return of income within seven months Companies are then required to pay tax
the relevant YA. This time limit is not
after the closing of accounts. Particulars by monthly installments (based on the
A taxpayer may request for an advance ruling applicable where fraud, wilful default or
required to be specified in the return estimates submitted) commencing from
from the DGIR, who may make an advance negligence has been committed.
include the amount of chargeable income the second month of the company’s basis
ruling on how the provision of the law
and tax payable by the company. Upon period (financial year).
submission of the return, an assessment Tax payable by a company under an applies to an arrangement described in the Tax compliance certificate
application. An advance ruling is only
is deemed to have been made on the assessment upon submission of a return Taxpayers who wish to tender for
applicable to the person making the
company. The return is deemed to be a is due and payable by the last day on government projects will be required to
application and is not subject to review when
notice of assessment, which is deemed to expiry of seven months from the date on obtain a tax compliance certificate from
issued. However, the taxpayer retains his
be served on the company on the date which the accounts are closed. the IRB.
right of appeal against any assessment issued
that it is submitted.
in accordance with the tax treatment set out
in the ruling. A fee will be charged for the
issuance of an advance ruling.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 49


BBuussiinneessss T Taaxxaattiioonn Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Transfer pricing
Transfer pricing (TP) legislation
The basis for determining proper
compensation is the arm’s length principle.
Advance pricing arrangements Statute of limitation for TP Country-by-Country Reporting
Under the Malaysian Income Tax Act 1967
(APA) adjustments The Malaysian Country-by-Country
(ITA 1967) the DGIR is given powers to
Companies are allowed to apply for The statute of limitation to raise an Reporting Rules require a Malaysian
adjust any transfer prices between related
APAs from the DGIR. The objective assessment or additional assessment multinational corporation (MNC)
parties in Malaysia which, in his view, do
of establishing APAs is to provide for a YA in respect of TP adjustments group, with total consolidated group
not meet the arm’s length standard.
an avenue for taxpayers to obtain for a transaction entered into revenue of MYR3 billion and above
certainty upfront that their related between associated persons, which is in the financial year preceding the
The TP Rules 2023 provides an arm's
party transactions meet the arm’s not at arm's length, is seven years reporting financial year, to prepare
length range in a Malaysian context, and
length standards. The APA Rules from the expiration of that YA. and submit the Country-by-Country
together with the TP Guidelines 2012, give
2023 and APA Guidelines 2012 Report to the IRB no later than 12
guidance on the arm’s length standard that
give guidance on the matter. months after the close of each
is acceptable to the IRB. The TP Rules and
financial year.
Guidelines seek to provide guidance on the
application of the law on controlled
Malaysian entities of foreign MNC
transactions, the acceptable methodologies
groups will generally not be required
as provided in the rules and administrative
to prepare and file Country-by-
requirements including the types of
Country Reports as the obligation to
records and documentation expected from
file will be with the ultimate holding
taxpayers involved in TP arrangements.
company in the jurisdiction it is tax
resident in. However, a notification
to the IRB may be required.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 50


BBuussiinneessss T Taaxxaattiioonn Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Business reorganisation
Business reorganisations involving a transfer of shares normally has no tax
consequences unless transfer of shares in a real property company or shares of
unlisted companies incorporated in Malaysia is involved. In such cases, there may be
RPGT or CGT implications arising from the share transfers. For more details on CGT,
please refer to Chapter 7.
If the disposer and acquirer are under a common control, the transfer of any asset
between them is regarded as a “controlled transfer” wherein the disposer / acquirer
is deemed to have disposed of / acquired the assets at the tax written down value.
(“Control” means management control or the holding of 50% or more of the shares
by the disposer / acquirer or other controlling corporation).
In other cases of transfer, the transfer values of the fixed assets will constitute
qualifying expenditure for the purpose of computing CA of the transferee
corporation, and also as the disposal value for the purpose of computing balancing
charge or allowance of the transferor corporation.
Group relief (outlined earlier) is available to all locally incorporated tax resident
companies that fulfil certain conditions.
There may also be stamp duty implications when shares / assets are transferred.
However, relief from stamp duty may be available (please refer to Chapter 8).
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 51


BBuussiinneessss T Taaxxaattiioonn Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Tax incentives
In cognisance of the importance of the Examples of tax incentives available are as follows:
role of private sector investment in
ensuring sustainable growth in the Pioneer status and investment tax allowance Islamic financial services sector
medium and long term, the government PS incentive is an exemption from income tax on 70% of statutory income There are also an array of incentives
has instituted measures to enhance (adjusted income after deducting CA) for a period of five years. ITA is an available in furtherance of the
investment activity in Malaysia. allowance of 60% of QCE incurred on a building or plant and machinery for a government’s objective of developing
period of five years. ITA is an alternative incentive to PS. Malaysia into a leading international
One of the measures is through tax Islamic Financial Centre. These range
incentives. Tax incentives are generally Companies in the manufacturing, agricultural, hotel and tourism sectors or any from tax deduction given for issuance
applicable to investors who establish tax other industrial or commercial sector that participate in a promoted activity of costs of various Islamic securities to tax
resident companies in Malaysia. The producing a promoted product may be eligible for the PS or ITA incentive where exemptions granted for fees earned from
policy is to encourage foreign companies qualifying conditions are met. management of funds in accordance to
wishing to engage in continuing syariah principles.
operations in Malaysia to incorporate There are also enhanced PS and ITA incentives available for companies
local subsidiaries. Tax incentives to undertaking projects in promoted products or activities where the government Malaysia Digital (MD)
promote investments in Malaysia are intends to further expedite growth. Enhanced PS usually takes the form of a full (formerly known as
generally in the form of tax exemptions on tax exemption whilst ITA is given on 100% of QCE. Multimedia Super Corridor)
profit, capital-based incentives in the MD tax incentive will be offered to
form of allowances or deductions based Currently, eligible projects range from projects of national and strategic eligible MD status companies that
on the quantum of capital expenditure importance, high technology, research & development, healthcare, education, to undertake qualifying activities by
incurred. those undertaking green technology activities such as energy conservation and utilising MD promoted tech enablers.
generation of energy using renewable resources. The MD tax incentive is an outcome-
Malaysia has made legislative changes based approach that uses a tiered system
where required, to meet the Forum on Any unutilised PS losses can be carried forward for a maximum period of seven in granting tax incentives.
Harmful Tax Practice’s requirements. consecutive YAs after the end of the pioneer period. Any unutilised amount after
the end of the seventh YA will be disregarded.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 52


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
The MD tax incentive is offered as follows:
New investment Expansion
Reduced tax rate: “Pre-packaged” incentives
• Qualifying intellectual property (IP) 0% 15% As part of the Government’s efforts to attract high quality investments, specially
income “pre-packaged” incentives are available to companies resident in Malaysia
10% or 5% 15% carrying on an “approved business”. An “approved business” is defined to mean
• Qualifying non-IP income (up to 10 years) (up to 5 years) any business approved by the MOF under the special incentive scheme. Under
this scheme, a company is entitled to claim either:
or
 Tax exemption on 70% (or any other rate as prescribed by the MOF) of the
ITA 60% or 30% or
company’s statutory income; or
100% of QCE 60% of QCE
 Tax exemption on 70% (or any other rate as prescribed by the MOF) of
against up to 100% against up to100%
statutory income granted based on a percentage (as determined by the MOF)
statutory income statutory income
of QCE incurred.
(up to 5 years) (up to 5 years)
Reinvestment Allowance (RA)
RA is available to manufacturing companies that reinvest their capital to embark
on a project for either expansion of existing production capacity, modernisation or
automation of the production facilities, or diversification into related products.
The rate of RA is 60% of QCE (i.e. expenditure on factory, plant and machinery)
and is granted in addition to CA. The RA is used to reduce up to 70% of statutory
income of the manufacturing company from its business source in respect of the
qualifying project.
The incentive period for RA is 15 years from the first year of claim by a company.
In respect of unutilised RA available at the end of the RA period, the seven
consecutive YAs carry-forward restriction apply, similar to the PS incentive.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 53


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Economic corridors
The following economic corridors, driven by MIDA, working in collaboration with regional economic Apart from existing incentives which are
corridors investment promotion agencies, offer opportunities in manufacturing, renewable energy, available for promoted activities and
logistics, and tourism through advanced infrastructure and strategic incentives: products provided under the Promotion
of Investments Act 1986 (PS, ITA, etc.)
and the ITA 1967, the following incentives
are offered to enhance attractiveness and
Perlis
Northern Corridor Economic Region boost innovation and technology adoption
Kedah (www.ncer.com.my)
within Malaysia's economic corridors:
Kelantan
Penang Western, central
Terengganu and eastern regions  Customs duty exemptions
of Sabah
Perak  Double tax deductions on qualifying
expenses
East Coast Economic Region
(www.ecerdc.com.my)  Investment grants
Pahang
 Employment incentives
Northern Sabah Development Corridor
Sarawak (www.sedia.com.my)  Research and development incentives
 Tailored incentives for specific
industries such as high technology,
Mersing
Central green technology, biotechnology, and
Sarawak
Southern other strategic sectors,
Johor
The Government has also implemented a
new industrial policy where income tax
Iskandar Malaysia
incentive at a special rate are offered for
(www.iskandarmalaysia.com.my)
Sarawak Corridor of Renewable
investment in the 21 economic sectors in
Energy (www.recoda.my)
some states.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 54


Business Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Johor-Singapore Special Economic Zone (JS-SEZ)
JS-SEZ is designed to attract high-value investments and strengthen Johor’s
position as a key economic hub in the region. The following are the tax incentive
package available in JS-SEZ, subject to meeting qualifying conditions:
Global Services Hub
Special tax rate of
5% Forest City Special Financial Zone (“Forest City SFZ”)
up to 15 years
The Forest City SFZ is a special financial zone located within the JS-SEZ,
designed to position Malaysia as a global financial hub. The following are
Smart Logistic Complex the tax incentives announced for the Forest City SFZ:
Manufacturing
business incentive
100% ITA on QCE for 5
years, against 100% Either special tax rate of Family offices Financial global business services
of statutory income. 5%
up to 15 years
CIT rate for family offices
0% 5% CIT rate for financial global business
under the Single-Family
OR Office Scheme coordinated services, financial technology
(fintech), and foreign-owned payment
Manufacturing of downstream ITA on QCE for by the Securities
100% system operators.
5 years, against 100% Commission.
specialty chemicals:
of statutory income
Either special tax rate of
Knowledge workers Relocation incentives, etc
for companies involving the
5%
or 10% up to 10 years artificial intelligence and quantum
Special tax deduction on relocation costs, enhanced
computing supply chain, medical personal income tax rate
OR devices, pharmaceutical, aerospace 15% for individual knowledge industrial building allowance and withholding tax
exemptions for banking, insurance, capital market
60% or 100% ITA on QCE for manufacturing and maintenance, workers.
intermediaries and other eligible entities in the
10 years, against 100% repair and overhaul services.
financial sector.
of statutory income
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 55


Personal
Taxation
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 56


Personal Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Scope of taxable income Basis of assessment Residence status of individuals
Income tax is imposed on income accruing in Income of individuals are assessed on a calendar The tax residence status of an individual is
or derived from Malaysia by any person (See year basis. The YA is the year coinciding with the determined based on the number of days the
Chapter 5). Gains or profits from an calendar year, for example, the YA 2025 is the individual is present in Malaysia. The individual
employment, profession or vocation are year ending 31 December 2025. would be regarded as a tax resident, if the
taxable if derived from Malaysia. Employment individual meets any of the following conditions,
income is regarded as derived from Malaysia if i.e. if the individual is:
the employment is exercised in Malaysia and ● in Malaysia for at least 182 days in a calendar
is subject to Malaysian tax, even if the income year,
is received outside of Malaysia. Capital gains ● in Malaysia for a period of less than 182 days
are not taxable except for those derived from during the year but that period is linked to a
disposal of real property or shares in a real period of physical presence of 182 or more
property company (See Chapter 8). “consecutive” days in the following or
With effect from YA 2025, a 2% tax is imposed preceding year. In ascertaining “consecutive”
on the excess of MYR100,000 dividend days, under certain situations, an individual’s
income received by individual shareholders temporary absence from Malaysia may be
(resident and non-resident, and individuals disregarded when determining tax residence
who hold shares through nominees) from status,
resident companies. ● in Malaysia for 90 days or more during the
Resident individuals are also subject to tax on year and, in any 3 of the 4 immediately
foreign- sourced income received in Malaysia. preceding years, the individual was in
Subject to conditions, foreign-sourced income Malaysia for at least 90 days or was resident in
received in Malaysia from 1 January 2022 to Malaysia,
31 December 2036 is exempted from tax (See ● resident for the year immediately following
Chapter 5). that year and for each of the three immediately
preceding years.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 57


Personal Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Rates of tax
Resident individuals Non-resident individuals
Chargeable Tax payable Tax rate (%) on Tax rate
Types of income
Income* (MYR) (MYR) excess (YA 2025) (%)
5,000 0 1 Public entertainer’s professional income 15
Interest 15
20,000 150 3
Royalty 10
35,000 600 6
Special classes of income: 10
• rental of movable property
50,000 1,500 11
• advice, assistance or services rendered in Malaysia
• payment for services rendered in connection with use of property or installation or
70,000 3,700 19 operation of any plant, machinery or other apparatus purchased from a non-resident
person
100,000 9,400 25
Dividends (single tier)
• Up to MYR100,000 Exempt
400,000 84,400 26 • On the excess of MYR100,000 dividend income 2
Business and employment income 30
600,000 136,400 28
Employment income of a knowledge worker who is a qualified person in specific regions 15
2,000,000 528,400 30
Employment income of a foreign citizen holding key or C-Suite positions in a company 15
that has been granted relocation tax incentive and subject to other eligibility criteria
* Chargeable income in respect of dividend in excessof MYR100,000, is subject
to tax at 2%.
Income other than the above 10
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 58


Personal Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Exemptions and concessional
tax treatment for expatriates
Exemptions or concessions are given in
certain situations, such as:
• Income tax exemption for non-resident
employees who are short-term visitors
(other than public entertainers), if the
aggregate period(s) of employment in
Malaysia do not exceed 60 days.
If a short-term visiting employee is Deductions
resident in a country that has a double tax Expenses and other payments
treaty with Malaysia, the qualifying period Employees are allowed a deduction for
is generally extended to 183 days provided any expenditure wholly and exclusively
certain other prescribed conditions are incurred in the performance of their
satisfied. duties. Non-business expenses, such as
• Exemption for an expatriate receiving fees medical expenses and taxes, are not
as a director of a Labuan entity (until YA deductible. Expenses of a private or
2025). domestic nature are expressly excluded
from deduction.
• Expatriates working in approved Regional
Offices based in Malaysia are taxed on a
time apportionment basis in accordance
with the employment income attributable
to the number of days the employment is
exercised in Malaysia.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 59


Personal Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Employment income
Gross employment income includes:
Valuations of some types of
employment income are as follows:
Cash remuneration Perquisites Benefits-in-kind
• Cars or other household items provided for private use
• Wages • Petrol card / petrol • Motorcar
can be valued at prescribed rates that are lower than
• Salary or travel allowance • Household
the actual cost incurred by the employer.
• Leave pay • Childcare subsidies / furnishings &
• Rent-free accommodation provided by the employer is
• Fees allowance appliances
valued at the lower of 30% of the employee’s total cash
• Commissions • Income tax borne by • Driver
• Bonuses employer • Domestic servant remuneration (excluding equity income) or the actual
• Gratuities • Gardener rental value.
• Club membership
The following are some exemptions
for certain benefits-in-kind:
• Medical benefits, as well as childcare benefits provided
by the employer.
Living Pension / provident fund Compensation
• Leave passages, restricted to one overseas trip, up to a
accommodation Receipts from Compensation for
maximum amount of MYR3,000, and three local trips
Unfurnished living unapproved pension / loss of employment
(including meals and accommodation) per year.
accommodation provident fund arising
• Full or partial exemption in respect of a variety of
provided by the from contributions made
allowances (e.g. allowances for parking and meals,
employer by the employer in respect
travel / petrol, or childcare allowances) or other
of the employee
benefits (e.g. telephones, pagers, etc. registered in the
name of the employee / employer, monthly bills for
telephones or broadband subscriptions, goods
provided free or at a discount) for employees.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 60


Personal Taxation Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Personal relief
Personal reliefs are deductible from the total income of a tax resident individual to arrive at taxable income.
Examples of personal reliefs given are:
YA 2025 (MYR) Filing obligations and tax collection
Self 9,000 An individual will self-assess and compute his own
chargeable income and tax payable. Upon
Spouse 4,000
submission of the tax return form, the taxpayer is
Child
deemed to have been served with a notice of
● per child (unmarried & below 18 years old) 2,000
assessment for which tax is due and payable.
● per child (unmarried & receiving full-time instruction at any university, college, school or similar 2,000
Annually, the due date for submission of individual
educational establishment)
● per child (over 18 years old) receiving full-time instruction of higher education in respect of: 8,000 income tax returns are:
○ diploma level and above (in Malaysia) • 30 April for individuals without business income
○ degree level and above (outside Malaysia)
• 30 June for individuals with business income
● per child (over 18 years old) serving under articles of indenture in a trade or profession 8,000
Life insurance premiums and additional voluntary contribution to EPF 3,000* Tax payments by employees are collected through
compulsory monthly deductions from salary,
EPF / approved pension fund contributions and additional voluntary contribution to EPF 4,000*
or bi-monthly instalment plan issued by the IRB for
Insurance premiums for education or medical benefits 4,000* individuals with business income. The balance of
tax payable upon computing the chargeable income
Medical expenses for self, spouse or child suffering from a serious disease 10,000*
for a YA is due and payable on the abovementioned
submission due dates.
*Maximum relief
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 61


Taxes
on Capital
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 62


Taxes on Capital Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Capital Gains Tax
The CGT tax rates are as follows:
Taxable person
CGT is imposed on: Capital asset situated in Malaysia
1. companies
Acquisition date of CGT rate
2. LLPs
capital asset
3. co-operatives, and On net gain (chargeable income) On gross disposal price
4. trust bodies
Before 1 January 2024* 10% or 2%
Scope of CGT From 1 January 2024* 10% Not applicable
The following types of capital assets are
within the scope of CGT: *Exemption is given for disposals made on or after 1 January 2024 to 29 February 2024.
1. Gains from disposal of: The exemption does not apply where the gains are treated as business income.
a. Shares in unlisted companies
incorporated in Malaysia. Gains from disposal of all types of capital asset situated outside Malaysia, remitted into Malaysia*
b. Shares in controlled company Based on prevailing income tax rate of the taxpayer:
incorporated outside Malaysia • Companies, LLPs, and trust bodies: 24% (headline)
deriving value from real property in • Co-operatives: 0% to 24% (scaled rates)
Malaysia.
2. Gains from disposal of all types of capital *Exemption is given for such capital gains which are received in Malaysia from 1 January 2024 to 31
assets situated outside Malaysia, remitted December 2026 which meet economic substance requirements.
into Malaysia
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 63


Taxes on Capital Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Exemption from CGT
Subject to meeting qualifying conditions,
CGT exemption is available for the
following:
• Disposal of shares related to a scheme
forrestructuring of companies within the
same group
• Disposal of shares related to restructuring
for an approved initial public offering
• Disposal of shares by a qualifying unit
trust
All other gains on capital assets are not
subject to tax, except for gains arising from
the disposal of real property situated in
Malaysia, which is not subject to CGT from 1
January 2024, is subject to RPGT.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 64


Taxes on Capital Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Real Property Gains Tax
Disposal from the
RPGT rate
RPGT is imposed on gains arising from date of acquisition
the disposal of real property, including
shares in a real property company (RPC) Companies Individuals (non-citizens and
owned by individuals, at the rates incorporated in non-permanent residents),
Individuals
indicated in the table on the right. Malaysia, trustees of executors of estates of deceased
(citizens and
a trust or bodies of non-citizens and non-
Real property is defined as any land permanent
persons registered permanent residents or
situated in Malaysia and any interest, residents)
under any written companies not incorporated in
option, or other right in or over such land.
law in Malaysia Malaysia
An RPC is essentially a controlled
company where 75% or more of its total Within 3 years 30% 30% 30%
tangible assets consist of real property
and/or shares in an RPC. A controlled
In the 4th year 20% 20% 30%
company is a company owned by no more
than 50 members and controlled by no
more than five persons. In the 5th year 15% 15% 30%
In the 6th year
10% Nil 10%
onwards
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 65


Other Taxes
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 66


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Sales Tax
Sales tax is a single-stage tax imposed on taxable
goods manufactured in Malaysia that are subsequently MMaannuuffaaccttuurree RRaatteess ooff ttaaxx
sold, used or otherwise disposed of by a registered MMaannuuffaaccttuurree,, iinn rreellaattiioonn ttoo ggooooddss ootthheerr tthhaann ppeettrroolleeuumm,, TThhee ddeeffaauulltt rraattee ooff ssaalleess ttaaxx iiss 1100%%.. TThheerree iiss aa rreedduucceedd
manufacturer or imported into Malaysia by any mmeeaannss tthhee ccoonnvveerrssiioonn bbyy mmaannuuaall oorr mmeecchhaanniiccaall mmeeaannss ooff rraattee ooff 55%% ffoorr cceerrttaaiinn pprreessccrriibbeedd ggooooddss wwhhiicchh aarree lliisstteedd
person. All goods are taxable goods unless they are oorrggaanniicc oorr iinnoorrggaanniicc mmaatteerriiaallss iinnttoo aa nneeww pprroodduucctt bbyy iinn tthhee FFiirrsstt SScchheedduullee ooff tthhee SSaalleess TTaaxx ((RRaatteess ooff TTaaxx))
specifically exempted by order of the MOF. cchhaannggiinngg tthhee ssiizzee,, sshhaappee,, ccoommppoossiittiioonn,, nnaattuurree oorr qquuaalliittyy ooff OOrrddeerr 22002255.. TThheerree aarree aallssoo ssppeecciiffiicc rraatteess ((ee..gg..,,
ssuucchh mmaatteerriiaallss aanndd iinncclluuddeess tthhee aasssseemmbbllyy oorr ppaarrttss iinnttoo MMYYRR00..3300 ppeerr lliittrree,, MMYYRR00..0011 ppeerr kkgg,, eettcc..)) ffoorr ccooaall ttaarr
Sales tax is a consumption tax, and under the system ppiieecceess ooff mmaacchhiinneerryy oorr ootthheerr pprroodduuccttss bbuutt ddooeess nnoott iinncclluuddee aanndd ppeettrroolleeuumm pprroodduuccttss..
the onus is on the registered manufacturer to calculate tthhee iinnssttaallllaattiioonn ooff mmaacchhiinneerryy oorr eeqquuiippmmeenntt ffoorr tthhee ppuurrppoossee
the tax, levy it and collect it from its customers. In the ooff ccoonnssttrruuccttiioonn.. IInn rreellaattiioonn ttoo ppeettrroolleeuumm,, iitt mmeeaannss tthhee GGooooddss eexxeemmpptteedd
case of imported goods, sales tax is collected from the pprroocceessss ooff rreeffiinniinngg tthhaatt iinncclluuddeess tthhee sseeppaarraattiioonn,, TThheerree aarree ggooooddss wwhhiicchh aarree ssppeecciiffiiccaallllyy eexxeemmpptteedd bbyy
importer at the time the goods are cleared from ccoonnvveerrssiioonn,, ppuurriiffiiccaattiioonn aanndd bblleennddiinngg ooff rreeffiinneerryy ssttrreeaammss oorrddeerrbbyy tthhee MMiinniisstteerr.. TThhee ffuullll lliisstt ooff ggooooddss ssppeecciiffiiccaallllyy
customs control. oorr ppeettrroocchheemmiiccaall ssttrreeaammss.. eexxeemmpptteedd iiss aavvaaiillaabbllee iinn SScchheedduullee AA ooff tthhee SSaalleess TTaaxx
((GGooooddss EExxeemmpptteedd ffrroomm TTaaxx)) OOrrddeerr 22002255.. AAllll ggooooddss
With effect from 1 January 2024, sales tax is also RReeggiissttrraattiioonn aanndd eexxeemmppttiioonn ffrroomm rreeggiissttrraattiioonn eexxppoorrtteedd ffrroomm MMaallaayyssiiaa aarree eexxeemmpptteedd ffrroomm ssaalleess ttaaxx..
imposed on low value goods sold on online platforms AA mmaannuuffaaccttuurreerr iiss lliiaabbllee ttoo bbee rreeggiisstteerreedd iiff tthhee ttoottaall ssaalleess
by registered sellers and brought from overseas into vvaalluuee ooff hhiiss ttaaxxaabbllee ggooooddss ffoorr aa 1122--mmoonntthh ppeerriioodd eexxcceeeeddss oorr TTaaxx--ffrreeee rraaww mmaatteerriiaall
Malaysia. iiss eexxppeecctteedd ttoo eexxcceeeedd MMYYRR550000,,000000.. CCeerrttaaiinn IInn oorrddeerr ttoo mmaaiinnttaaiinn tthhee ssiinnggllee--ssttaaggee ccoonncceepptt,, tthheerree aarree
mmaannuuffaaccttuurriinngg aaccttiivviittiieess aarree eexxeemmpptteedd ffrroomm tthhee ffaacciilliittiieess aavvaaiillaabbllee ttoo aallllooww ffoorr iinnppuuttss ((rraaww mmaatteerriiaallss
[Refer to section on “Low Value Goods” for further rreeggiissttrraattiioonn rreeqquuiirreemmeenntt.. TThheeyy iinncclluuddee tthhee ddeevveellooppiinngg aanndd aanndd ccoommppoonneennttss)) ttoo bbee iimmppoorrtteedd oorr aaccqquuiirreedd ffrreeee ooff
details] pprriinnttiinngg ooff pphhoottooggrraapphhss aanndd pprroodduuccttiioonn ooff ffiillmm sslliiddeess,, tthhee ssaalleess ttaaxx bbyy aa rreeggiisstteerreedd mmaannuuffaaccttuurreerr ffoorr uussee iinn tthhee
mmaannuuffaaccttuurree ooff rreeaaddyy mmiixxeedd ccoonnccrreettee aanndd tthhee pprreeppaarraattiioonn mmaannuuffaaccttuurriinngg pprroocceessss..
ooff ffooooddss oorr ddrriinnkkss bbyy cceennttrraall kkiittcchheenn ffoorr ddiissttrriibbuuttiioonn ttoo iittss
pprreemmiisseess rreeggiisstteerreedd ffoorr sseerrvviiccee ttaaxx..
AAnnyy mmaannuuffaaccttuurreerr wwhhoo iiss nnoott lliiaabbllee ttoo bbee rreeggiisstteerreedd ffoorr
ssaalleess ttaaxx oorr eexxeemmpptteedd ffrroomm rreeggiissttrraattiioonn mmaayy nnoonneetthheelleessss
aappppllyy ttoo tthhee DDiirreeccttoorr GGeenneerraall ((DDGG)) ooff CCuussttoommss ffoorr
vvoolluunnttaarryy rreeggiissttrraattiioonn aass aa rreeggiisstteerreedd mmaannuuffaaccttuurreerr.. TThhee
DDGG ooff CCuussttoommss mmaayy aapppprroovvee tthhee rreeggiissttrraattiioonn ttoo bbee eeffffeeccttiivvee
ffrroomm aa ddaattee hhee ddeetteerrmmiinneess aanndd ssuubbjjeecctt ttoo ccoonnddiittiioonnss hhee
ddeeeemmss ffiitt..
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 67


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Approved Major Exporter Scheme
The Approved Major Exporter Scheme applies to traders and manufacturers whose annual sales exceed MYR10 million and who export at least 80% of their annual
sales. Such approved traders and manufacturers are granted full sales tax exemption on their importation or purchase of goods. Traders and manufacturers who fulfil
all the prescribed conditions can apply to the DG of Customs for approval under this scheme.
Drawback Payment of sales tax and taxable period Refund of sales tax on bad debts
A person can claim drawback on the sales tax Sales tax is due at the time the taxable goods are A registered manufacturer or a person who has
paid in respect of imported or locally acquired sold, disposed of otherwise than by sale, or first ceased to be a registered manufacturer can
goods, which are subsequently exported. used otherwise than as materials in the apply for a refund of sales tax in relation to bad
manufacture of taxable goods, by the taxable debts. The conditions for the refund application
person. However, in relation to the classes of are that:
petroleum that are subject to sales tax, special • the whole or part of the sales tax paid has
Sales tax deduction provisions apply regarding the time when sales been written off as a bad debt, and
Registered manufacturers can apply to the DG
tax is due and payable. • all reasonable efforts have been made by the
of Customs for sales tax deduction on taxable
applicant to recover the sales tax.
raw materials, components or packing materials
Any sales tax that falls due during a taxable
purchased from local traders and used solely in
period, is payable to the RMCD latest by the last
the manufacturing of their taxable goods. The
day of the month following the end of the taxable
rate of sales tax deduction is:
period.
of the total value of taxable goods
2% A taxable period is a period of 2 calendar months.
purchased if the taxable goods were
However, a taxable person can apply to the DG of
charged with sales tax of 5%
Customs to vary the taxable period. If the
application to vary the taxable period is approved,
of the total value of taxable goods
4% the sales tax due is payable to the RMCD latest
purchased if the taxable goods were
bythe last day of the month following the end of
charged with sales tax of 10%
their varied taxable period.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 68


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Low value goods
With effect from 1 January 2024, sellers (both local and foreign) who sell LVG on an online platform to Malaysian customers are required to register for and impose
sales tax on the sale of LVG if the total sale value of LVG for a 12-month period exceeds or is expected to exceed MYR500,000.
For the purpose of charging sales tax, LVG is “Seller” means a person, whether in or outside
defined in the legislation to mean all goods Malaysia, who sells LVG on an online platform or
which are sold at a price not exceeding MYR500 operates an online marketplace for the sales and
and are brought into Malaysia by land, sea or purchase of LVG.
air. LVG exclude the following:
The RMCD has indicated in their guide that an
• Cigarettes and tobacco products.
“online platform” refers to a platform that
• Intoxicating liquors.
provides facilities for the sale and purchase of
• Smoking pipes (including pipe bowls). LVG which includes a marketplace operated via
• Electronic cigarettes and similar personal website, internet portal or gateway.
electric vaporizing devices.
The rate of sales tax on LVG is 10% and sales tax
• Preparation of a kind used for smoking
is calculated on the sale value of the LVG
through electronic cigarettes and electric
excluding any tax, duty, fee or other charges such
vaporizing device, in form of liquid or gel,
as transportation, insurance or other costs. Sales
whether or not containing nicotine.
tax on LVG is due when the LVG are sold by the
seller.
A seller of LVG who has registered with the
RMCD is referred to as a registered seller. A
registered seller is required to file the returns
online and pay the tax on a quarterly basis to the
RMCD.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 69


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Service Tax
Service tax is a consumption Rates of tax Registration of taxable person
tax levied and charged on: Prior to 1 March 2024, the rate of service tax is 6% ad valorem for all taxable & taxable services
a) any taxable services (including services and digital services except for the provision of charge or credit card A taxable person is a person who is
digital services) provided in Malaysia services. Service tax for the provision of charge or credit card services is MYR25 per registered or liable to be registered
year on each principal card or supplementary card.
by a registered person in carrying on for service tax. A person is liable to
his business, be registered if the total value of his
With effect from 1 March 2024, the rate of service tax wasincreased to
b) any imported taxable services taxable services for a 12-month
8% ad valorem for all taxable
acquired by any person who carries period exceeds or is expected to
services and digital services
on business in Malaysia, and exceed the prescribed registration
c) any digital services provided by a threshold. The term “person”
Except for the following services at their respective rates as below:
foreign registered person to a includes an individual, a firm, a
Malaysian consumer. 6% • Food and beverages services 25 society, an association, a company
(excluding sale of alcoholic beverages) MYR
and every other juridical person.
• Telecommunication services Provision of charge
To avoid being taxed twice, local
• Provision of parking place services or credit card services
businesses which acquired digital
• Logistic services
services from a foreign registered
person are exempted from having to Effective 1 July 2025, the scope of service tax has been further expanded. The
account for and pay service tax through expansion includes the imposition of service tax on the following services:
the imported taxable service • Leasing or rental services – 8%
• Construction work services – 6%
mechanism.
• Financial services – 8%
• Private healthcare services (to non-Malaysian citizen only) – 8%
• Private education services – 8%
This expansion is accompanied by targeted exemptions to prevent tax cascading and
to ensure that essential services for Malaysian citizens remain exempt from service
tax.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 70


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Taxable persons
The following is a summary of taxable persons and their respective prescribed registration thresholds:
Threshold Threshold
Group Taxable person Group Taxable person
(MYR) (MYR)
A Operators of hotels, inns, lodging house, service apartment, 500,000 G Registered advocates, solicitors and syarie lawyers 500,000
homestay (subject to some exclusions)
Registered public accountants
B Operators of restaurants, bars, snack-bars, canteen, coffee house, 1,500,000
golf club, golf driving range or any place providing
Licensed or registered surveyors / registered valuers,
food and drinks whether eat-in or take-away
appraisers and estate agents
(subject to some exclusions)
Registered professional engineers
Catering services providers
Registered architects
Operators of food court
Consultancy, training or coaching services providers
C Operators of night-clubs, dance halls, cabarets and karaoke 500,000 (subject to some exclusions)
centres
Digital and information technology services providers
Operators of 1st, 2nd or 3rd Class Public House
and 1st or 2nd Class Beer House Management services providers
Operators of approved health and wellness centres
Employment services providers
and massage parlours (subject to some exclusions)
D Operators of private clubs 500,000 Licensed private agencies
E Operators of golf course or golf driving range 500,000 Operators of online platform or
marketplace
F Licensed operators of bettings, sweepstakes, lotteries, 500,000 Maintenance or repair service providers
gaming machines or games of chance (subject to some exclusions)
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 71


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Taxable persons
The following is a summary of taxable persons and their respective prescribed registration thresholds:
Threshold Threshold
Group Taxable person Group Taxable person
(MYR) (MYR)
H Persons who are regulated by the Central Bank of Malaysia and Nil I Licensed airlines providing domestic flights 500,000
(con’t)
provide credit card or charge card services through the issuance of
a credit card or a charge card Brokering and underwriting services providers 500,000
Licensed insurers or takaful operators 1,000,000
Cleaning services providers 500,000
Any person or persons who are regulated by BNM, SC or the 1,000,000
Private healthcare facility operators or providers that registered or licensed under 1,500,000
Labuan Financial Services Authority who provide financial
the Private Healthcare Facilities and Services Act 1998
services for fees, commissions or similar payments
J Providers of logistics services 500,000
Persons who provides financial services including financial 1,000,000
leasing, factoring, trade financing, credit facilities or syariah Providers of delivery, distribution or transportation of goods, documents or
compliant financing services which are subject to fees, packages services through the e-commerce platform
commissions or similar payments
Licensed courier service providers
I Licensed/registered persons providing telecommunication 500,000
Approved customs agents who provide services for the release of goods from Nil
services and contents applications services
customs control
K Persons who provides rental or leasing services 1,000,000
Operators of parking space for motor vehicles 500,000
L Persons who provides construction works services 1,500,000
Operators of motor vehicles service or repair centres 500,000
M Private educational institutions registered under the Education Act 1996 which Nil
charge fees exceeding MYR60,000 per student for each academic year
Advertising (including digital advertising) services providers 500,000
Higher education institutions registered under the Universities and University Nil
Colleges Act 1971, the Private Higher Educational Institutions Act 1996, or the
Providers of electricity transmission and distribution services to 500,000 Education Act 1996 that provide private education services to non-Malaysian
domestic consumers, where consumption exceeds 600 kWh per citizens.
billing cycle of at least 28 days, excluding designated exempted
Language centres registered under the Education Act 1996 for non-Malaysian Nil
areas
citizens that provide private education services to non-Malaysian citizens.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 72


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Taxable services
Any person who is not liable to be registered Taxable services also include sale or provision The following services were included as taxable
for service tax may nonetheless apply to the of food, drinks, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, services with effective from 26 February 2024:
DG of Customs for voluntary registration as a tobacco products, smoking pipes, electronic a) Services at Karaoke centres.
registered person. The DG of Customs may cigarettes and similar electric vaporizing b) Brokering and underwriting services other
approve the registration to be effective from a devices, preparation of a kind (in form of liquid than those related to financial services.
date he determines and subject to conditions or gel and irrespective of whether or not c) Maintenance or repair services.
he deems fit. containing nicotine) used for smoking through d) Logistics services, which includes the
electronic cigarettes and electric vaporizing supply chain of logistic management
Examples of taxable services include but are devices. services, warehousing or warehousing
not limited to the provision of accommodation management services, freight forwarding
premises, certain professional services, digital services, port or airport services, shipping
services (including electronic platform services, aviation services or cold chain
services), certain telecommunication services, facilities services, delivery, distribution or
betting and gaming services, management transportation of goods services.
services, security services, provision of parking
space, provision of golf course, golf driving A complete list of taxable persons and taxable
range or services related to golf or golf driving services can be found in the First Schedule of
range, courier delivery services (other than to the Service Tax Regulations 2018.
destinations outside Malaysia), domestic flight
services, provision and issuance of charge card
or credit card whether or not annual
subscription or fee is imposed,
and provision of electricity to
domestic consumer.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 73


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Registration of foreign Exemption for specific business
digital service provider -to-business (B2B) services
Service providers outside Malaysia who Service tax registered businesses which provide
provide digital services to Malaysian certain taxable professional services,
consumers will be required to register in advertising services or logistics services are
Malaysia and charge service tax if the total exempted from payment of service tax on the
value of digital services provided to Malaysian same professional services or advertising
consumers for a 12-month period exceeds or is services acquired from another service tax
expected to exceed the prescribed registration registered person subject to certain qualifying
threshold of MYR500,000. criteria.
Intra-group services Local service tax-registered businesses which
Service tax is not applicable on the following provide certain taxable professional services or
transactions performed among companies advertising services are exempted from having
within a qualifying group of companies to account for and pay service tax through the
(i.e., subject to certain qualifying criteria): imported taxable service mechanism on the
same professional services, advertising services
a) provision of certain taxable professional
or logistics services acquired from foreign
services in Malaysia by a registered
service providers subject to certain qualifying
person,
criteria. In addition, local service tax registered
b) acquisition of certain taxable professional
businesses which provide digital services could
services from overseas by a Malaysian, and
claim refund of service tax paid on digital
c) provision of digital services by foreign
services acquired from foreign registered
service providers or foreign registered
persons if the digital service acquired is the
person.
same as the digital service they provide.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 74


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Payment of service tax & taxable period for Payment of service tax on Payment of service tax by a
registered person (bi-monthly) imported taxable service foreign registered person
Service tax is due when payment is received The service tax for imported taxable service For digital services provided by a foreign registered
for the taxable services rendered. Nonetheless, is due at the earlier of the payment date or provider, service tax is due when payment is received
if payment is not received within 12 calendar the date the invoice for the service is for the digital services provided. The DG of Customs
months from the date of issuance of the received. A taxable person is required to may approve an application from a foreign registered
invoice, the tax is due on the day immediately account for the service tax on imported person for the service tax of the digital service
after the expiry of the 12-month period. taxable service in its service tax return. provided to be due at the date of issuance of the
The DG of Customs may approve an However, a non-taxable person is required invoice instead of the payment date.
application from a registered person for the to account for the service tax on imported Any service tax that falls due during a taxable period
service tax of the taxable service rendered to taxable service in a prescribed declaration to is payable to the RMCD latest by the last day of the
be due at the date of issuance of the invoice the DG of Customs. The furnishing of the month following the end of that taxable period. A
instead of the payment date. declaration and the payment of service tax taxable period for a foreign registered person is a
Any service tax that falls due during a taxable due must be made latest by the last day of period of three calendar months. However, a foreign
period is payable to the RMCD latest by the the month following the month in which the registered person can apply to the DG of Customs to
last day of the month following the end of the payment for the service is made or the vary the taxable period. If the application to vary the
taxable period. A taxable period is a period of invoice for the service is received. taxable period is approved, the service tax due is
two calendar months. However, a taxable payable to the RMCD latest by the last day of the
person can apply to the DG of Customs to vary month following the end of the varied taxable period.
the taxable period. If the application to vary
the taxable period is approved, the service tax
due is payable to the RMCD latest by the last
day of the month following the end of their Refund of service tax on bad debts
varied taxable period. A registered person or a person who has ceased to be a registered person can apply for a refund of service
tax in relation to bad debts. The conditions for the refund application are that:
• the whole or part of the service tax paid has been written off as a bad debt, and
• all reasonable efforts have been made by the applicant to recover the service tax.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 75


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Tourism Tax
Tourism Tax Payment of tourism tax and taxable
Tourism Tax is a tax imposed and levied on period for registered person (quarterly)
tourists staying at any accommodation Every accommodation premises operator is
premises in Malaysia provided by the required to account the tourism tax collected
operator at a set rate of MYR10.00 per room for each taxable period using Form TTx-03.
per night. This form, along with the payment, should be
submitted to the DG of Customs by the end
Registration and exemption from of the month following the taxable period.
registration
All accommodation premises operators are If the operator does not to receive any or all
required to register under the Income Tax Act of the tourism tax from a tourist within 12
2017 except for operators listed under the months from the invoice date for the
Tourism Tax (Exemption) Order 2017. The accommodation, they must account for this
full list of accommodation premises operators tax in the TTx return for the taxable period
specifically exempted is available in following the end of the 12-calendar month
Paragraph 3 of the Tourism Tax (Exemption) period
Order 2017.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 76


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Import duties
Imports of goods are generally subject to import duties.
Rates of tax Tariff rate quota Value of goods Exemptions Prohibition of imports
Import duties are generally Malaysia has a tariff rate The value of goods for the Import duty exemptions are Import restrictions are
levied on an ad valorem quota (TRQ) on selected purpose of computing provided by the MOF e.g. seldom imposed except on a
basis, but they may also be agricultural products, such import duties is determined on manufacturing aids and limited range of products
imposed on a specific basis. as chicken, milk and cream, largely in accordance with cleanroom equipment, re- for the protection of local
The ad valorem rates range hen eggs, cabbages. Under the World Trade imported goods after repair. industries or for reasons of
from 0% to 60%. TRQ, the tariff charged Organisation (WTO) security and public safety.
depends on the volume of principles of customs In addition, manufacturers An import licence has to be
Raw materials, machinery, imports. valuation. may apply to the relevant obtained from the relevant
essential foodstuffs, and authorities for exemption authorities and other
pharmaceutical products Imports within quota from import duties for the government agencies for the
are generally non-dutiable (volume) attract duties at a following, subject to certain importation of prohibited
or subject to duties at lower lower tariff rate while a conditions: goods.
rates. higher tariff rate applies on
goods in excess of the quota • dutiable raw materials
volume “out-quota tariff and components used
rate”. directly for the
manufacture of goods,
The quota applicable is and
determined by the relevant • dutiable machinery and
agency, e.g. Department of equipment which are
Veterinary Services or used directly in the
Federal Agriculture manufacturing process.
Marketing Authority
Department.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 77


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Export duties High-value goods tax
Export duties are generally imposed on Malaysia’s On 31 March 2024, the MOF announced that the
main commodities such as crude petroleum and high-value goods tax (HVGT) will be deferred
palm oil for revenue purpose. from the initial implementation date, 1 May 2024,
as proposed during the Budget 2024 speech.
Prohibition of exports: The HVGT is expected to range from
Export prohibitions also apply to goods such as
5% - 10%
live animals, poultry, palm kernels and palms
seeds, sugar and rice, unless accompanied by an
To date, the new implementation
export license issued by the relevant authorities
date has yet to be announced.
and other government agencies.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 78


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Excise duties
Specific exemption
Excise duties Licensing Rates of duties Payment of duty for electric vehicles
Excise duties are imposed Unless exempted from The rates of excise duties As a general rule, duty is Full import duty exemption
on a selected range of goods licensing, a manufacturer of vary from a composite rate payable at the time the on components for
manufactured in Malaysia tobacco, intoxicating liquor, ranging from MYR0.90 goods leave the place of Completely Knocked Down
or imported into Malaysia. sweetened beverages or per litre for sweetened manufacture or the licensed (CKD) EVs and full excise
Goods which are subject to goods subject to excise beverages, MYR0.47 per warehouse. However, for duty exemption and sales
excise duty include beer / duties must have a licence 100 grams for premix motor vehicles, duty is tax on CKD EVs from 1
stout, cider and perry, rice to manufacture such goods. preparations, MYR0.40 per payable at the time the January 2022 to 31
wine, mead, undenatured An excise warehouse licence stick for cigarettes, vehicles are removed from December 2027.
ethyl alcohol, brandy, is required for storage of MYR0.40 per millilitre for the place of manufacture for
whisky, rum and other goods subject to excise nicotine-based liquid or gel registration with the Road Full import duty and excise
spirits obtained by distilling duty. However, a licence to used in electronic Transport Department. duty exemption on
fermented sugar-cane manufacture tobacco, cigarettes, MYR1.10 per imported Completely Built
products, gin and Geneva, intoxicating liquor, litre and 15% for certain Units EVs from 1 January
cigarettes containing sweetened beverages or types of spirituous 2022 to 31 December 2025.
tobacco, electronic cigarette goods subject to excise duty beverages, to as much as
and electric vaporising also permits the holder to 105% for motorcars
device, motor vehicles, store such goods. (depending on engine
motorcycles, playing cards, capacity).
mahjong tiles and
sweetened beverages
including premix
preparations. No excise
duty is payable on goods
that are exported.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 79


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Stamp Duty
Stamp duty is chargeable on instruments and not on transactions. Transfer of shares not listed on stock
exchange or marketable securities
Stamp duty rates MYR
Stamp duty rates vary according to the value of the underlying transaction which is generally
taken to be the higher of actual consideration or market value. for every MYR1,000 or
any fraction thereof.
A minimum duty of MYR10 is imposed on dutiable instruments with duty less than MYR10
(except cheques and contract notes). Transfer of shares listed
On Bursa Malaysia
Transfer of properties in general (other than shares and marketable securities)
i) Foreign companies, non-citizens and non-permanent residents MYR
Flat rate stamp duty of MYR4 per MYR100 or part thereof.
ii) Other than foreign companies, non-citizens and non-permanent residents for every MYR1,000 or any fraction
thereof, capped at MYR1,000
Portion of Rate Stamp duty per contract note.
total value (MYR) payable (MYR)
On the first 100,000 MYR1 per MYR100 or part thereof 1,000 Transfer of listed
marketable securities
On the next 400,000 MYR2 per MYR100 or part thereof 8,000
MYR
On the next 500,000 MYR3 per MYR100 or part thereof 15,000
for every MYR1,000 or any fraction
1,000,000 24,000
thereof, capped at MYR200
In excess of 1,000,000 MYR4 per MYR100 or part thereof per contract note.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 80


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Loan, services The stamp duty rate is 0.5%. Reduced rates are available as follows:
and equipment
Service Agreement Reduced stamp duty rate
lease agreement
All service agreement (one tier) 0.1%
Multi-tier service agreement
a) Non-government contract (i.e. between private entity and First level 0.1%
service providers
Subsequent 0.1%
level(s) capped at MYR50
b) Government contract (i.e. between Federal / State First level Exempted
Government of Malaysia or State / local authority and service
Second level 0.1%
providers)
Subsequent 0.1%
level(s) capped at MYR50
Loan Agreement Reduced stamp duty rate
Loan agreement without security and repayable on demand or in Ringgit Malaysia 0.1%
single bullet repayment loan
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 81


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Stamp Duty Relief
Transfer of properties / shares between associated
1 companies. Associated companies are essentially
companies where either company owns 90% or
more of the other company or where a third
company owns 90% or more of both companies.
Transfer of properties / shares pursuant to a scheme
of reconstruction or amalgamation of companies.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 82


Other Taxes Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8
Windfall profit levy Contract levy Assessment, quit rent and road tax
A levy of A levy of Assessment rates and quit rent are payable by
property owners according to the legislation of
3% 0.125%
the local or municipal authorities on properties
located in areas under their jurisdiction.
is imposed on crude palm oil and crude palm on contract works having a
Essentially, these levies are intended for the
kernel oil where the price exceeds contract sum above
maintenance and provision of essential services
3,150 500,000 to the areas. The tax is levied as a percentage of
MYR MYR
the capital value or the taxable value of the
per metric ton for Peninsular Malaysia is imposed on every registered property.
contractor by the Construction
3,650
MYR Industry Development Board Road tax is levied on owners of motor vehicles at
rates that vary according to the type of vehicle
per metric ton for Sabah and Sarawak
and engine capacity. Owners of EVs are eligible
for exemption from road tax until 31 December
2025.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 83


This guide includes information obtained or derived from a variety of publicly available sources.
PwC has not sought to establish the reliability of these sources or verified such information. All such
information is provided ‘as is’ and PwC does not give any representation or warranty of any kind
(whether expressed or implied) about the suitability, reliability, timeliness, completeness and
accuracy of this publication. This publication is for general guidance only and should not be
About PwC
construed as professional advice. Accordingly, it is not intended to form the basis of any decision
and you are advised to seek specific professional advice on any transaction or matter that may be
affected by this publication before making any decision or taking any action.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 84


About PwC
PwC operations in Malaysia
PwC's roots in Malaysia stretch back to the early 1900s. Over the years,
we've supported a diverse range of clients—- global companies, public
sector bodies, and dynamic entrepreneurs.
We see ourselves as key contributors to the nation's growth and progress.
Through our assurance, tax, deals, and consulting services, we help our
clients thrive in both prosperous and challenging times.
Our focus is on consistently delivering value. How we apply our expertise
to achieve this is tailored to your objectives. We begin by understanding
your business—building trust, enhancing shareholder value, or exploring
new ventures.
Whether you're engaging with our teams in Kuala Lumpur, Pulau Pinang,
Ipoh, Melaka, Johor Bahru, Kuching, or Labuan, expect us to uncover
your business needs and collaborate closely with you to pinpoint crucial
goals for your corporate strategy.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 85


About PwC
Assurance services Tax services Deals services Consulting services
We empower organisations to enhance We work with clients to craft strategies Our Integrated Deals team operates The PwC Consulting business in
their external financial reporting and and solutions for significant tax and across competencies and borders, Malaysia is part of our South East
navigate new regulatory demands like business challenges, leveraging our providing comprehensive support to Asian Consulting joint venture.
the Malaysian Financial Reporting expertise in technical issues and deliver value throughout your Deals
Standards (MFRS). Our clientele compliance. experience.
By bringing together our expertise
includes leading companies on Bursa
across the region, we help organisations
Malaysia and dynamic emerging
We assist organisations in creating tax From deal strategy and origination to work smarter and grow faster.
Malaysian enterprises.
strategies that align with their corporate valuation and due diligence, we guide We consult with our clients to drive
objectives. In tax technology, we help you through challenges, ensuring swift growth, leverage digital opportunities,
We support clients in championing capture meaningful data, automate and precise transactions. We also offer manage risk and transform
transparency, reinforcing corporate processes, and enhance ERP systems, expertise in capital project finance your workforce to
governance, and developing business enabling tax functions to meet the advisory and evaluate opportunities accelerate business
models rooted in sustainability dynamic requirements of modern related to your policy and investment outcomes.
principles. Together, we are committed business. decisions for impactful results.
to driving progress and unlocking
opportunities for a brighter future.
Acceleration Center Kuala Lumpur (AC Kuala Lumpur)
PwC Acceleration Centers serve as global talent hubs, uniting diverse, highly skilled professionals to tackle complex client projects. By leveraging
cutting-edge digital technologies, these centres ensure seamless collaboration with global teams, delivering services with agility and efficiency, and
offering a unique client experience. Established in 2022, PwC Acceleration Center Kuala Lumpur (AC Kuala Lumpur) is designed as a versatile
operation with expertise in Advisory, Assurance, Tax, and Business Services. Presently, AC Kuala Lumpur primarily caters to the needs of PwC clients
in the US through its Assurance, Tax, and Advisory services.
PPwwCC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 86


About PwC
Consumer & Industrial
Products and Services
Technology, Media & Energy, Utilities
Telecommunications & Resources
Our industry-specific
approach Key
industries
PwC’s industry-focused network
is designed to anticipate and
address your business needs.
Government & Entertainment,
With more than 370,000 people,
Public Sector Hospitality & Leisure
deployed across 149 countries,
we can both zoom out and see
the big picture — the context —
and zoom in on the right Financial Services
solution.
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 87


About PwC
Providing the right solution
Financial & Non- Risk Corporate Specialist Deals Consulting
Financial Assurance Services Tax Tax
• Statutory Audit • Controls & Performance • Corporate Tax Compliance • E-invoicing • Business Restructuring • Strategy & Operations
• Financial Accounting Assurance & Advisory • Indirect Tax (including Services • Finance
• Regulatory Compliance • Digital Trust and • Corporate Services Sales & Services Tax) • Mergers & Acquisitions • Procurement
• Non-Financial Cybersecurity • Dispute Resolution • Workforce - Corporate Finance • Supply Chain
Performance & Reporting • Governance, Risk & • One Stop Compliance • Transfer Pricing - Transaction Services • Front Office
• Financial Reporting Compliance Services • International Tax • Value Creation • Workforce
Standards • Islamic Finance Services/ Mergers & - Valuations Transformation
• Sustainability Assurance • Data and Analytics Acquisitions - Deals Strategy & • Finance Transformation
• Financial Risk • Tax Reporting & Strategy Operations • Digital, Cloud and Data
Management • Capital allowances - Forensics • Microsoft
• Internal Audit & Controls • Accounting solutions • Economics, Policy & • AWS etc.
Advisory Infrastructure Capital • Alliances
• Managed Services
• Public Sector Financing - Economics & Policy • SAP
• Environmental, Social & - Capital Projects & • Oracle
Governance Infrastructure • Salesforce
• New Law
• Risk & Modelling
• Worldtrade Management
Services
Services
• Financial Crime
• Japanese Business
Consulting • Cybersecurity
• Korean Business • Sustainability
Consulting • Managed Services
• China Business Consulting
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 88


About PwC
Our Offices
Contacts
Kuala Lumpur
Level 10, 1 Sentral Assurance
Jalan Rakyat Dato’ Theng Bee Han
Kuala Lumpur Sentral Assurance Leader
50470 Kuala Lumpur T: +60 (3) 2173 0811
T: +60 (3) 2173 1188 E: b.han.theng@pwc.com
F: +60 (3) 2173 1288
Tax
Pulau Pinang * Acceleration Center
Steve Chia
16th Floor, Bangunan KWSP Kuala Lumpur
Tax Leader
Jalan Sultan Ahmad Shah * Level 3A, 1 Sentral
10050 Pulau Pinang Jalan Rakyat * T: +60 (3) 2173 1572
T: +60 (4) 238 9188 Kuala Lumpur Sentral E: steve.chia.siang.hai@pwc.com
F: +60 (4) 238 9288 50470 Kuala Lumpur
* Labuan Deals
Level 13F, Main Office Tower
Albert Lee
Financial Park Labuan
Ipoh Deals Leader
Standard Chartered Bank Chambers * Jalan Merdeka
T: +60 (3) 2173 1082
1st Floor, 21-27, 87000 Federal Territory of Labuan
Jalan Dato’ Maharaja Lela * T: + 60 (87) 42 2088, 42 1618 E: lee.a@pwc.com
30000 Ipoh, Perak * F: + 60 (87) 42 2198
Consulting Services
T: +60 (5) 220 2500
Shahrin Ismail
F: +60 (5) 253 2366 Kuching
Consulting Leader
Level 2 (West) & 3 (West)
T: +60 (3) 2173 1350
Melaka Johor Bahru Wisma STA, 26
E: shahrin.ismail@pwc.com
Level 15-1, Tower B Level 16, Menara Ansar Jalan Datuk Abang Abdul Rahim
Jaya 99 Jalan Trus 93450 Kuching, Sarawak
Acceleration Center Kuala Lumpur
99 Jalan Tun Sri Lanang 80000 Johor Bahru, Johor T: + 60 (82) 52 7218
Molly Wong
75100 Melaka T: +60 (7) 218 6000 F: +60 (87) 52 7228
General Manager
T: +60 (6) 270 7300 F: +60 (7) 224 8088
F: +60 (6) 284 4368 T: +60 (3) 2173 3888
E: molly.siew.lee.wong@pwc.com
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 89


Glossary
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 90


Glossary
BNM Bank Negara Malaysia ITA Investment tax allowance
Bursa Malaysia Bursa Malaysia Berhad LLP Limited Liability Partnership
CA Capital allowance LVG Low value goods
CA 2016 Companies Act 2016 MDEC Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation
CCM Companies Commission Malaysia MIDA Malaysian Investment Development Authority
CIT Corporate income tax MOF Minister of Finance
CGT Capital gains tax PS Pioneer status
DOSM Department of Statistics Malaysia QCE Qualifying capital expenditure
EPF Employees’ Provident Fund REIT Real Estate Investment Trust
ESG Environmental, social and governance RMCD Royal Malaysian Customs Department
EV Electric vehicles RPGT Real property gains tax
GDP Gross Domestic Product SC Securities Commission Malaysia
GNI Gross National Income SOCSO Social Security Organisation
IRB Inland Revenue Board YA Year of assessment
PwC Doing Business in Malaysia 2025 91


Thank You
pwc.com/my
© 2025 PwC. All rights reserved. PricewaterhouseCoopers” and/or “PwC” refers to the individual members of the PricewaterhouseCoopers organisation in Malaysia, each of which is a separate legal entity.
PPlweaCse see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.