Stamp 1
REPRINT
Act 378
STAMP ACT 1949
Incorporating all amendments up to 1 January 2006
PUBLISHED BY
THE COMMISSIONER OF LAW REVISION, MALAYSIA
UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE REVISION OF LAWS ACT 1968
IN COLLABORATION WITH
PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BHD


STAMP ACT 1949
First enacted … ... ... ... … … … 1949 (F.M. Ordinance
No. 59 of 1949)
Revised … … … … … … … 1989 (Act 378 w.e.f.
2 January 1990)
PREVIOUS REPRINT
First Reprint ... ... ... ... ... 2001


Act 378
STAMP ACT 1949
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY
Section
1. Short title and application
2. Interpretation
3. Collector and Deputy Collectors of Stamp Duties
3A. Powers of Collector
PART II
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS
GENERALLY
Liability of Instruments to Duty
4. Instruments chargeable with duty
4A. Stamp duty on instruments executed outside Malaysia effecting transfers
of property in Malaysia
Payment of Duty
5. All facts and circumstances to be set out
5A. Loan and financing for the purposes of small business
6. Instrument relating to distinct matters
7. Mode of paying and denoting duty
8. Franking of certain instruments
9. Cheques, contract notes or policies of insurance drawn on forms supplied
by bankers, stockbrokers or insurers authorized in that behalf need not
bear a stamp


Section
10. How instruments are to be written and stamped
11. Where duty chargeable depends on duty paid on another instrument
12. Duplicate and counterparts
Valuation for Duty
12A. Assessment of the value of property under transfer or settlement
13. Currency and securities
14. Instruments reserving interest
14A. Principal securities in syariah financing
PART III
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR
INSTRUMENTS
15. Relief from stamp duty in case of reconstructions or amalgamations
of companies
15A. Relief from stamp duty in case of transfer of property between associated
companies
16. Voluntary conveyance inter vivos
17. How transfer for debts, stocks, securities, future payment and further
consideration to be charged
18. Duties on foreclosure orders
19. Valuation in case of annuity
20. Direction as to duty in case of certain conveyances
20A. Exchange of real property
20B. Vesting or transfer of an undivided interest in property
21. Certain contracts to be chargeable as conveyances on sale
22. Sale of annuity or right not before in existence
23. What is to be deemed a conveyance, not being a sale or mortgage
24. Leases, how to be charged in respect of produce, etc.
25. Directions as to duty upon leases, etc.
26. Direction as to duty upon transfer of stock
27. (Deleted)
28. Security for future advances, how to be charged
29. (Deleted)
29A. Directions as to duty upon a primary or principal security


Stamp 5
Section
30. Directions as to sea policy
31. Legal alteration in sea policies may be made
32. Directions as to certain contract notes
32A. Obligation to execute contract note
PART IV
LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF DUTY
33. Duty by whom payable
34. (Deleted)
35. Exemptions
PART V
ADJUDICATION AS TO STAMPS
36. Mode of adjudication as to proper stamp
37. Certificate by Collector
38. Exception to sections 36 and 37
38A. Notice of objection
39. Appeal to High Court
40. Time of stamping after adjudication
PART VI
OF THE TIME OF STAMPING INSTRUMENTS
41. Instruments executed in Malaysia
42. Instruments executed out of Malaysia
43. Bills, cheques or notes drawn out of Malaysia
44. Bills of exchange and cheques accepted or payable outside Malaysia
45. Power of drawee to stamp bills or cheques
46. Transfers of shares
47. Stamping of instruments after execution
47A. Penalty for late stamping
48. Denoting penalty
49. Persons liable to penalty
50. Penalty, how recoverable


PART VII
INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY STAMPED
Section
51. Examination and impounding of instruments
52. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence
53. Instruments impounded how dealt with
54. (Deleted)
55. Agreements evidenced by letters how stamped
56. Recovery of duty and penalty
PART VIII
ALLOWANCE FOR SPOILED STAMPS
57. Allowance for spoiled stamps
58. Allowance for misused stamps
59. Allowance, how to be made
59A. Stamp to include official receipt
PART IX
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
60. Not cancelling adhesive stamps
61. Penalty for not setting forth all the facts and circumstances
62. (Deleted)
63. Penalty for executing and signing documents not duly stamped
64. Penalty for failure to execute and transmit contract note
65. Penalty for post-dating bills
66. (Deleted)
67. Penalty for not making out policy other than on sea insurance or
making one not duly stamped
68. Penalty for assuring on sea insurance unless under policy duly stamped
69. Penalty for issuing share warrant, etc., not duly stamped
70. (Deleted)


Stamp 7
Section
71. Penalty for unauthorized dealing in stamps
72. Penalty for hawking stamps
73. Postage stamps
74. Fraud in relation to duty
75. Institution and conduct of prosecution
PART X
MISCELLANEOUS
76. Books, etc., in the custody of public officers may be inspected without
fee
77. Collector may administer oaths
78. Revision of acts of Collector
79. Responsibility for loss or damage
80. Power to exempt, reduce or remit duties
81. Power to compound duties in case of issue of bonds, etc.
82. Rules
83. Repeal
FIRST SCHEDULE
SECOND SCHEDULE
THIRD SCHEDULE
FOURTH SCHEDULE
FIFTH SCHEDULE
SIXTH SCHEDULE




Stamp 9
Act 378
STAMP ACT 1949
An Act relating to stamp duties.
[Peninsular Malaysia— 5 December 1949;
Sabah and Sarawak— 1 October 1989, P.U. (B) 441/1989]
PART I
PRELIMINARY
Short title and application
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Stamp Act 1949.
(2) This Act shall apply throughout Malaysia.
Interpretation
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“banker” means any person licensed under the Islamic Banking
Act 1983 [Act 276] or the Banking and Financial Institutions Act
1989 [Act 372] to carry on the business of banking in Malaysia;
“bond” means—
(a) any instrument whereby a person obliges himself to pay
money to another on condition that the obligation shall
be void if a specified act is performed or is not performed,
as the case may be;
(b) any instrument, attested by a witness and not payable to
order or bearer, whereby a person obliges himself to pay
money to another;


“charge” means any instrument whereby, for the purpose of
securing the payment of any definite and certain sum of money
advanced or lent at the time or previously due or foreborne to be
paid or for the repayment of money to be thereafter lent, advanced
or paid, or which may become due upon any account current,
together with any sum already advanced or due, or without, as the
case may be, or for the performance of any contract or engagement,
one person creates a right over or charge upon any specified
property; and includes any instrument which purports to create or
in which any person agrees to create any such right or charge;
“cheque” means a bill of exchange drawn on a specified banker
and not expressed to be payable otherwise than on demand;
“Collector” includes the Collector of Stamp Duties and every
Deputy Collector of Stamp Duties appointed under section 3;
“continuation clause” in a policy of sea insurance made for time
means an agreement to the following or the like effect, namely,
that in the event of the ship being at sea or the voyage otherwise
not completed on the expiration of the policy, the subject matter
of the insurance shall be held covered until the arrival of the ship,
or for a reasonable time thereafter not exceeding thirty days;
“contract note” means the note sent by a dealer or agent to his
principal, or by any person who by way of business deals, or holds
himself out as dealing, as a principal in any stock or marketable
securities, advising the principal, or the vendor or purchaser, as
the case may be, of the sale or purchase of any stock or marketable
security, but does not include a note sent by a dealer or agent to
his principal where the principal is himself acting as dealer or
agent for a principal and is himself a person who bona fide carries
on the business of a dealer in Malaysia;
“conveyance on sale” includes every instrument and every decree
or order of any Court, whereby any property, or any estate or
interest in any property, upon the sale thereof is transferred to or
vested in a purchaser or any other person on his behalf or by his
direction;
“dealer” means any person licensed under the Securities Industry
Act 1983 [Act 280] to carry on the business of dealing in securities
in Malaysia and is recognized as a member company by a stock
exchange;


Stamp 11
“die” includes any plate, type, tool or implement whatever used
under the direction of the Collector for expressing or denoting any
duty or rate of duty, or the fact that any duty or rate of duty or
penalty has been paid, or that an instrument is duly stamped, or
is not chargeable with any duty or for denoting any fee, and also
any part of any such plate, type, tool or implement;
“duly stamped”, as applied to an instrument, means that the
instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than
the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or used
in accordance with the law for the time being in force in Malaysia:
Provided that in the case of Sabah and Sarawak an official
receipt for the proper amount may be affixed to any instrument in
lieu of the stamp, and the instrument shall then be deemed to be
duly stamped;
“duty” means any stamp duty for the time being chargeable
under this Act or under any written law;
“equitable mortgage” means an agreement or memorandum, under
hand only, relating to the deposit of any title deeds or instruments
constituting or being evidence of the title to any property whatever
(other than stock or marketable securities and a letter of
hypothecation), or creating a charge on such property but does not
include a registered charge on land in any State;
“executed” and “execution”, used with reference to instruments
not under seal, mean “signed” and “signature”;
“foreign currency loan” means any loan denominated wholly in
currencies other than the Ringgit;
“impressed stamp” means a stamp impressed by means of a die,
or an adhesive stamp over which an impression, denoting the date
of such impression, has been made by the proper officer by means
of a die;
“instrument” includes every written document;
“insurer” means any person licensed under the Takaful Act 1984
[Act 312] or the Insurance Act 1996 [Act 513] to carry on an
insurance business in Malaysia and includes a reinsurer;


“lease” means a lease of immovable property, and includes—
(a) any undertaking in writing to cultivate, occupy, or pay
or deliver rent for, immovable property;
(b) any instrument by which tolls, rents or profits of any
description are let to farm;
(c) any writing on an application for a lease intended to
signify that the application is granted;
“letter of hypothecation” means any instrument creating a pledge
or lien over goods in consideration of moneys advanced or to be
advanced or to secure the payment or repayment of moneys;
“marketable security” means a security of such a description as
to be capable of being sold or negotiated in any stock market in
Malaysia or elsewhere;
“money” includes all sums whether expressed in the ringgit or
in any other currency;
“mortgage” means a security by way of mortgage for the payment
of any definite and certain sum of money advanced or lent at the
time, or previously due or foreborne to be paid, being payable, or
for the repayment of money to be thereafter lent, advanced or paid,
or which may become due upon an account current, together with
any sum already advanced or due, or without, as the case may be;
and includes—
(a) any conveyance of any property in trust to be sold or
otherwise converted into money intended only as a security,
and redeemable before the sale or other disposal thereof
either by express stipulation or otherwise;
(b) any instrument in writing for defeating or making
redeemable, or explaining or qualifying any conveyance
of property, apparently absolute, but intended only as a
security;
(c) any agreement for a mortgage or any agreement (other
than an agreement chargeable with duty as an equitable
mortgage), contract, or bond accompanied with a deposit
of title deeds or with other instruments evidencing a right
to property, for making a mortgage or any other security
or conveyance as aforesaid of any property comprised in
the title deeds or other instruments or for pledging or
charging the same as a security; and


Stamp 13
(d) any deed operating as a mortgage of any stock or marketable
security;
“official receipt” means a receipt issued by or on behalf of the
Collector for payment of stamp duties;
“paper” includes every material upon which words or figures
can be expressed;
“policy of insurance” includes every writing whereby any contract
of insurance is made or agreed to be made or is evidenced, and
the expression “insurance” includes assurance;
“policy of sea insurance”—
(a) means any insurance, including re-insurance, made upon
any ship or vessel, whether for marine or inland navigation,
or upon the machinery, tackle or furniture of any ship or
vessel or upon any goods, merchandise or property of
any description whatever on board of any ship or vessel
or upon the freight of or any other interest which may
be lawfully insured in or relating to any ship or vessel;
and
(b) includes any insurance of goods, merchandise or property
for any transit which includes, not only a sea risk under
paragraph (a), but also any other risk incidental to the
transit insured from the commencement of the transit to
the ultimate destination covered by the insurance;
“power of attorney” means any instrument except a warrant to
act as a solicitor in any judicial proceeding, empowering a specified
person to act in the stead of the person executing it;
“promissory note” means any document or writing (except a
bank note) containing a promise to pay any sum of money and
includes a note promising the payment of any sum of money out
of any particular fund which may or may not be available or upon
any condition or contingency which may or may not be performed
or happen;
“property” includes movable or immovable property and any
estate or interest in any property movable or immovable, whether
in possession, reversion, remainder or contingency, and any debt,
and anything in action, and any other right or interest in the nature
of property which is capable of being disposed of and has a value
in it;


“settlement” means any non-testamentary disposition in writing
whether made voluntarily or upon a good or valuable consideration
other than a bona fide pecuniary consideration whereby any definite
and certain property is settled or agreed to be settled in any manner
for any purpose whatsoever;
“stock” includes any share in the capital stock or funded debt
of any corporation, company or society in Malaysia or elsewhere
and any share in the stocks or funds of the Government of Malaysia
or of any other Government or country;
Collector and Deputy Collectors of Stamp Duties
3. (1) The Director General of Inland Revenue referred to in
subsection 134(1) of the Income Tax Act 1967 [Act 53] shall be
the Collector of Stamp Duties.
(2) The Minister of Finance may, by notification in the Gazette,
appoint such number of Deputy Collectors of Stamp Duties as he
thinks fit, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
Act.
Powers of Collector
3A. (1) The Collector may by notice in writing require any person
to produce any instrument for the purpose of ascertaining whether
it is chargeable with duty under this Act and, if so, whether that
duty has been paid.
(2) The Collector shall, if he considers it necessary in the execution
of his duties under this Act, at all times have full and free access
to all lands, buildings and places, and all books and documents,
whether in the custody or under the control of a public officer or
a body corporate or any other person whatsoever, for the purpose
of ascertaining the market value of any property or of ascertaining
any facts or inspecting any books or documents which the Collector
considers necessary or relevant for the purposes of this Act, or
considers likely to provide any information otherwise required for
the purposes of this Act, and may, without fee or reward, make
extracts from or copies of any such books or documents.


Stamp 15
(3) The Collector may take possession of any such books or
documents where in his opinion—
(a) the inspection or copying thereof or extraction therefrom
cannot reasonably be performed without taking possession
thereof;
(b) the books or documents may be interfered with, concealed
or destroyed unless possession thereof is taken; or
(c) the books or documents may be required as evidence in
any proceeding instituted or commenced under or for any
of the purposes of this Act.
(4) For the purpose only of ascertaining the market value of any
property, the Collector may in writing authorise any valuer employed
by the Government, whether he be a public officer or a person
privately practising as a valuer, to exercise any of the powers
conferred upon the Collector by this section.
(5) Any person who obstructs or hinders the Collector, or any
valuer duly authorized by the Collector, in the exercise of any of
his powers under this section, or who refuses or fails to comply
with a notice under subsection (1) or with any direction given in
good faith by the Collector or any such valuer for any of the
purposes of this section, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two
hundred and fifty ringgit.
PART II
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS
GENERALLY
Liability of Instruments to Duty
Instruments chargeable with duty
4. (1) Subject to this Act and subject to the exemptions contained
in this Act and in any written law for the time being in force, the
several instruments specified in the First Schedule shall, from and
after the commencement of this Act, be chargeable with the several
duties specified in such Schedule.
(2) Nothing in this Act shall render liable to additional duty any
instrument whereon duty is expressly imposed under any other
written law in force in Malaysia.


(3) Where in the case of any sale, lease, charge, settlement,
exchange or partition several instruments are employed for completing
the transaction, the principal instrument only shall be chargeable
with the duty prescribed in the First Schedule for the conveyance,
lease, charge, settlement or partition and each of the other instruments
shall be chargeable with a duty of ten ringgit only; and the parties
may determine for themselves which of the instruments so employed
shall, for the purpose of this subsection, be deemed to be the
principal instrument.
(4) The duties imposed by such Schedule may be cancelled,
varied or added to by a resolution of the House of Representatives.
Stamp duty on instruments executed outside Malaysia effecting
transfers of property in Malaysia
4A. (1) Any instrument executed outside Malaysia and purporting
to effect a transfer of any immovable property, or of any movable
property other than debentures issued by, or shares in, a company,
shall, if the property intended to be transferred is situated in any
part of Malaysia, be chargeable with stamp duty in accordance
with the First Schedule, and unless the instrument of transfer, or
a counterpart or duplicate thereof which shall be chargeable with
the like duty as if it were the original, is brought into Malaysia
and the proper stamp duty payable thereon as if the original had
been executed in Malaysia is paid, the transfer shall not take
effect.
(2) Where any instrument executed outside Malaysia and
purporting to effect a transfer of debentures issued by, or shares
in, a company incorporated in Malaysia under section 16 of the
Companies Act 1965 [Act 125] or a foreign company registered
in Malaysia under section 332 of that Act is produced or delivered
to the company for registration, in the case of a company incorporated
in Malaysia, in a register of debenture holders or a register of
members of the company kept in Malaysia in pursuance of section
70 or 158 of that Act or, in the case of a foreign company, in a
branch register of the foreign company kept in Malaysia in pursuance
of section 342 of that Act, the company or foreign company shall,
unless the instrument of transfer bears a stamp, duly cancelled in
accordance with this Act, showing—
(a) that the proper stamp duty has been paid thereon in
accordance with the First Schedule; or


Stamp 17
(b) such other evidence of payment of the proper stamp duty
as this Act may allow,
refuse to register the transfer and the transfer shall not take effect.
(3) Where any instrument of transfer of any of the descriptions
mentioned in subsection (2) is registered otherwise than in accordance
with that subsection, the company or foreign company and the
officer of the company or foreign company responsible for making
the entry in the register shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two
hundred and fifty ringgit.
(4) In this section—
(a) (Omitted);
(b) expressions which are defined in the Companies Act 1965
shall have the same meaning as in that Act.
Payment of Duty
All facts and circumstances to be set out
5. All the facts and circumstances affecting the liability of any
instrument to duty or the amount of the duty with which any
instrument is chargeable are to be fully and truly set forth in the
instrument, and the Collector may require such evidence to be
furnished as may be reasonably necessary to prove that all such
facts and circumstances are truly set forth.
Loan and financing for the purposes of small business
5A. Every instrument being the only or principal or primary security
for the payment or repayment of—
(a) a loan to a small business; or
(b) moneys provided in financing a small business according
to the syariah,
shall be indorsed by an authority approved by the Minister of
Finance that the loan or the financing was made for the purposes
of a small business.


Instrument relating to distinct matters
6. Except where express provision to the contrary is made by this
Act or by any other written law—
(a) an instrument containing or relating to several distinct
matters shall be separately and distinctly charged, as if
it were a separate instrument, with duty in respect of
each of the matters;
(b) an instrument made for any consideration in respect of
which it is chargeable with ad valorem duty, and also for
any further or other valuable consideration or
considerations, shall be separately and distinctly charged,
as if it were a separate instrument, with duty in respect
of each of the considerations.
Mode of paying and denoting duty
7. (1) Subject to any rules made under paragraph 82(b), all duties
with which any instruments are chargeable under this Act shall be
paid, and payment shall be indicated on such instrument, by means
of an adhesive stamp:
Provided that in the case of Sabah and Sarawak, the payment
may be indicated by affixing an official receipt to such instrument.
(2) Where duty is required to be paid or indicated by means of
an adhesive stamp, such stamp shall be a revenue stamp issued
under this Act for the payment of stamp duty, which, at the time
the duty is to be paid or indicated, is a valid revenue stamp.
(3) Stamps used for any of the instruments described under any
of the articles in the First Schedule and not included in the Second
Schedule shall, and stamps used for any of the instruments described
under any of the articles in the Second Schedule may, be cancelled
as follows: The instrument, or the paper on which it is proposed
to be written, shall be taken to the office of the Collector and the
stamp shall there be cancelled by having the words “Stamp Office”
with the name of the district and the date written or printed partly
on the stamp and partly on the paper to which the stamp is affixed.
(4) Stamps used for any of the instruments described under any
of the articles in the Second Schedule shall, unless cancelled in
the manner provided in the last preceding subsection, be cancelled


Stamp 19
as follows: Whoever affixes any such stamp to any instrument
chargeable with duty and which has been executed by any person
shall, when affixing such stamp, cancel the same by writing or
marking distinctly the date in ink either wholly on the stamp or
partly on the stamp and partly on the paper to which the stamp
is affixed, or in such other manner as the Minister of Finance may
from time to time direct, so that the stamp cannot be used again,
and whoever executes any instrument on any paper bearing a
stamp shall at the time of execution, unless such stamp has been
already cancelled in the manner aforesaid, cancel the same in the
manner aforesaid so that it cannot be used again.
(5) Any instrument bearing a stamp which has not been so
cancelled in the manner prescribed in this section that it cannot
be used again shall, so far as such stamp is concerned, be deemed
to be unstamped.
(6) Where two or more stamps are used to denote the stamp
duty on any instrument, each and every stamp shall be cancelled
in the manner prescribed in this section.
(7) In the case of instruments specified in the first column of
the Second Schedule, the persons mentioned in the second column
of the said Schedule are the persons required, subject to subsection
(3), to cancel the stamps.
(8) The Second Schedule may be amended by the Minister of
Finance by order published in the Gazette.
Franking of certain instruments
8. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, it shall be
lawful for the Minister of Finance by licence under his hand to
authorise any person to pay the duty on any of the instruments
specified in the Fifth Schedule by means of a postal franking
machine.
(1A) The Fifth Schedule may be amended by the Minister of
Finance by Order published in the Gazette.
(2) A licence issued under this section shall be subject to such
conditions as the Minister of Finance may in his absolute discretion
impose.


(3) The issue of a licence under this section shall be notified
by publication in the Gazette.
(4) Every impression indicating the payment of duty made by
a postal franking machine used under licences under this section
shall contain the true date of the making of such impression.
(5) The franking of any of the above-mentioned instruments by
any duly authorized person as provided for in this section, if done
in accordance with the terms of this section and of the licence,
shall have the same effect as cancelling an adhesive stamp on the
date and to the value indicated by such franking.
Cheques, contract notes or policies of insurance drawn on
forms supplied by bankers, stockbrokers or insurers authorized
in that behalf need not bear a stamp
9. (1) The Collector may, authorize any banker to compound for
the payment of duty on unstamped cheques, any dealer to compound
for the payment of duty on unstamped contract notes, and any
insurer to compound for the payment of duty on unstamped policies
of insurance, on the following conditions:
(a) that the said cheques, contract notes or policies of insurance
be drawn or drawn up and issued on forms to be supplied
or adopted by the said banker, dealer or insurer;
(b) that the said banker, dealer or insurer do levy upon or
charge to the person to whom such cheques, contract
notes or policies of insurance are issued the stamp duty
mentioned in the First Schedule;
(c) that the said banker, the dealer or insurer do pay on the
1st day of each calendar month in each year to the Collector
the amount due and collected thereon as duties on such
unstamped cheques, contract notes or policies of insurance,
and where he fails to pay the amount due on each date
specified or within fourteen days immediately thereafter,
he shall in addition to the amount due pay a further
amount of two hundred ringgit or ten per centum of the
amount due whichever is the greater and any amount due
shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Government;


Stamp 21
(d) that the said banker, dealer or insurer do deposit with the
Collector, as security for the due payment to the Collector
of any moneys payable under paragraph (c), such sum,
if any, as the Minister of Finance may direct.
(2) Cheques, contract notes or policies of insurance drawn or
drawn up and issued on forms supplied or adopted by such banker,
dealer or insurer in accordance with this section shall be deemed
to be duly stamped.
(3) Where a banker, dealer or insurer has been authorized to
compound for the payment of duty on unstamped cheques, contract
notes or policies of insurance as provided in subsection (1) the
Collector or any person authorized by him in writing, may, at all
reasonable times, inspect any stocks of unstamped cheques, contract
notes or policies of insurance held by the banker, dealer or insurer
and any books kept by him in connection with the issue of such
cheques, contract notes or policies of insurance.
How instruments are to be written and stamped
10. (1) Every instrument written upon stamped paper is to be
written in such manner, and every instrument partly or wholly
written before being stamped shall be so stamped, that the stamp
may appear on the face of the instrument and cannot be used for
or applied to any other instrument written upon the same piece of
paper.
(2) If more than one instrument be written upon the same piece
of paper, every one of the instruments shall be separately and
distinctly stamped with the duty with which it is chargeable.
Where duty chargeable depends on duty paid on another
instrument
11. Where the duty with which an instrument is chargeable, or
its exemption from duty, depends in any manner upon the duty
actually paid in respect of another instrument, the payment of such
last-mentioned duty shall, upon application to the Collector for
that purpose and production of both the instruments, be denoted
upon such first-mentioned instrument by indorsement under the
hand of the Collector or in such other manner, if any, as may be
prescribed by rules made under this Act.


Duplicate and counterparts
12. The duplicate or counterpart of an instrument chargeable
with duty (except the counterpart of an instrument chargeable as
a lease, such counterpart not being executed by or on behalf of any
lessor or grantor) shall not be deemed duly stamped unless it is
stamped as an original instrument, or unless it appears by a certificate
indorsed thereon by the Collector that the full and proper duty has
been paid upon the original instrument of which it is the duplicate
or counterpart.
Valuation for Duty
Assessment of the value of property under transfer or settlement
12A. Where an instrument is chargeable with duty under Item
32(a) of the First Schedule, the date for determining the market
value of any property being transferred, settled or gifted shall be—
(a) in the case of a settlement or gift, the date of execution
of the instrument of trust or settlement or gift;
(b) in the case of a transfer implementing a sale under a duly
stamped agreement of sale and purchase, the date of
execution of that agreement;
(c) in the case of a transfer of any property granted by a
statutory body, a local authority or any co-operative society
registered under any laws relating to co-operative societies,
the date when the final terms of transfer had been
communicated to the transferee, and in the case of
subsequent resale of that property, the date of consent by
the statutory body or local authority or the board of the
co-operative society for that resale;
(d) in the case of a transfer under a duly stamped sale and
purchase agreement where financial arrangements have
been made in accordance with the Syariah, the date of
execution of agreement; or
(e) in any other case, the date of execution of the instrument
of transfer.


Stamp 23
Currency and securities
13. (1) Where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty
in respect of—
(a) any money expressed in any currency other than ringgit;
(b) any stock or marketable or other security,
the duty shall be calculated on the value, on the day of the date
of the instrument or on the day it is stamped if executed out of
Malaysia, of the money in ringgit according to the current rate of
exchange, or of the stock or security according to the average price
thereof or, if there be no price, according to the value thereof.
(2) Where an instrument contains a statement of current rate of
exchange or average price, as the case may require, and is stamped
in accordance with such statement, it shall, so far as regards the
subject-matter of such statement, be presumed, until the contrary
is proved, to be duly stamped.
Instruments reserving interest
14. When interest is expressly made payable by the terms of an
instrument, such instrument shall not be chargeable with duty
higher than that with which it would have been chargeable if no
mention of interest had been made therein.
Principal securities in syariah financing
14A. Where it is shown that a principal or primary security secures
the repayment of moneys provided under a scheme of financing
made according to the syariah, duty chargeable thereon shall be
calculated on the principal amount provided by the financier or
financing body.
PART III
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PARTICULAR
INSTRUMENTS
Relief from stamp duty in case of reconstructions or
amalgamations of companies
15. (1) If in connection with a scheme for the reconstruction of
any company or companies or the amalgamation of any companies


it is shown to the satisfaction of the Collector that there exist the
following conditions, that is to say:
(a) that a company with limited liability has been registered
within six months before the commencement of this Act,
or that a company with limited liability is to be registered,
or that since the commencement of this Act a company
has been incorporated by special written law, or that
since the commencement of this Act or within six months
before the commencement thereof the nominal share capital
of a company has been increased;
(b) that the company (in this section referred to as “the
transferee company”) is to be registered in Malaysia or
has been incorporated in Malaysia or has increased its
capital with a view to the acquisition either of the
undertaking of, or of not less than ninety per centum of
the issued share capital of, any particular existing company;
(c) that the consideration for the acquisition (except such
part thereof as consists in the transfer to or discharge by
the transferee company of liabilities of the existing
company) consists as to not less than ninety per centum
thereof—
(i) where an undertaking is to be acquired, in the issue
of shares in the transferee company to the existing
company or to holders of shares in the existing
company; or
(ii) where shares are to be acquired, in the issue of
shares in the transferee company to the holders of
shares in the existing company in exchange for the
shares held by them in the existing company;
then, subject to this section, stamp duty under Item 32(a) or (b)
in the First Schedule shall not be chargeable on any instrument
made for the purposes of or in connection with the transfer of the
undertaking or shares:
Provided that—
(a) no such instrument shall be deemed to be duly stamped
unless either it is stamped with the duty to which it
would but for this section be liable or it has been brought
to the Collector under section 36 and he has certified
under section 37 either that the full duty with which it
is chargeable has been paid, or that it is not chargeable
with duty; and


Stamp 25
(b) in the case of an instrument made for the purposes of or
in connection with a transfer to a company within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1965 the provisions of
this subsection shall not apply unless the instrument is
either—
(i) executed within a period of twelve months from
the date of the registration of the transferee company
or the date of the resolution for the increase of the
nominal share capital of the transferee company, as
the case may be; or
(ii) made for the purpose of effecting a conveyance or
transfer in pursuance of an agreement which has
been filed, or particulars of which have been filed,
with the Registrar of Companies within the said
period of twelve months.
(2) For the purposes of a claim for exemption under subsection
(1), a company which has, in connection with a scheme of
reconstruction or amalgamation, issued any unissued share capital,
shall be treated as if it had increased its nominal share capital.
(3) A company shall not be deemed to be a particular existing
company within the meaning of this section unless it is provided
by the memorandum of association of, or written law incorporating,
the transferee company that one of the objects for which the company
is established is the acquisition of the undertaking of, or shares
in, the existing company, or unless it appears from the resolution,
or other authority for the increase of the capital of the transferee
company that the increase is authorized for the purpose of acquiring
the undertaking of, or shares in, the existing company.
(4) Where a claim is made for exemption under this section, the
Collector may require the delivery to him of a statutory declaration
in such form as he may direct made by an advocate and solicitor,
or, in the case of Sabah and Sarawak, an advocate, of the High
Court, and of such further evidence, if any, as he deems necessary.
(5) If—
(a) where any claim for exemption from duty under this
section has been allowed, it is subsequently found that
any declaration or other evidence furnished in support of
the claim was untrue in any material particular, or that


the conditions specified in subsection (1) are not fulfilled
in the reconstruction or amalgamation as actually carried
out;
(b) where shares in the transferee company have been issued
to the existing company in consideration of the acquisition,
the existing company within a period of two years from
the date, as the case may be, of the registration or
incorporation, or of the authority for the increase of the
capital, of the transferee company ceases, otherwise than
in consequence of reconstruction, amalgamation, liquidation
or in compliance with Government policy on capital
participation in industry to be the beneficial owner of the
shares so issued to it; or
(c) where any such exemption has been allowed in connection
with the acquisition by the transferee company of shares
in another company, the transferee company within a
period of two years from the date of its registration or
incorporation or of the authority for the increase of its
capital, as the case may be, ceases, otherwise than in
consequence of reconstruction, amalgamation or liquidation,
to be the beneficial owner of the shares so acquired;
the exemption shall be deemed not to have been allowed and an
amount equal to the duty remitted shall become payable forthwith,
and shall be recoverable from the transferee company as a debt due
to the Government, together with interest thereon at the rate of six
per centum per annum, from the date on which the duty would
have become chargeable if this section had not been passed.
(6) If in the case of any scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation,
the Collector is satisfied that at the proper time for making a claim
for exemption from duty under subsection (1) there were in existence
all the necessary conditions for such exemption other than the
condition that not less than ninety per centum of the issued share
capital of the existing company would be acquired by the transferee
company, the Collector may, if it is proved to his satisfaction that
not less than ninety per centum of the issued capital of the existing
company has under the scheme been acquired within a period of
six months from the earlier of the two following dates, that is to
say—
(a) the last day of the period of one month after the first
allotment of shares made for the purposes of the acquisition;
or


Stamp 27
(b) the date on which an invitation was issued to the
shareholders of the existing company to accept shares in
the transferee company,
and on production of the instruments on which the duty paid has
been impressed, direct repayment to be made of such an amount
of duty as would have been remitted if the said condition had been
originally fulfilled.
(7) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires—
(a) references to a company (other than that of the transferee
company) or to the registration or incorporation of a
company (other than that of the transferee company)
shall be construed as references to a company wherever
registered or incorporated;
(b) references to the undertaking of an existing company
include references to a part of the undertaking of an
existing company;
(c) the expression “shares” includes stock.
Relief from stamp duty in case of transfer of property between
associated companies
15A. (1) Stamp duty under Item 32(a) or (b) in the First Schedule
shall not be chargeable on any instrument to which this section
applies:
Provided that no such instrument shall be deemed to be duly
stamped unless either it is stamped with the duty to which it would
but for this section be liable or it has been brought to the Collector
under section 36 and he has certified under section 37 either that
the full duty with which it is chargeable has been paid, or that it
is not chargeable with duty.
(2) This section applies to any instrument with respect to which
it is shown to the satisfaction of the Collector that the effect
thereof is to transfer a beneficial interest in property from one
company with limited liability to another such company, and that
the companies in question are associated, that is to say, one is the
beneficial owner of not less than ninety per centum of the issued
share capital of the other, or that a third company with limited
liability is the beneficial owner of not less than ninety per centum
of the issued share capital of each of the aforesaid companies.


(3) The ownership referred to in subsection (2) is ownership
either directly or through another company or other companies, or
partly directly and partly through another company or other
companies, and the Sixth Schedule shall apply for the purposes of
this section.
(4) This section shall not apply to any instrument unless it is
also shown to the satisfaction of the Collector that the instrument
was not executed in pursuance of or in connection with an arrangement
whereunder—
(a) the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for
the transfer was to be provided or received, directly or
indirectly, by a person other than a company which at the
time of the execution of the instrument was associated
within the meaning of this section with either the transferor
or the transferee (meaning, respectively, the company
from whom and the company to whom the beneficial
interest was transferred); or
(b) the said interest was previously transferred, directly or
indirectly, by such a person; or
(c) the transferor and the transferee were to cease to be
associated within the meaning of this section by reason
of a change in the percentage of the issued share capital
of the transferee in the beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of this section) of the transferor or a third company,
and, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a), an
arrangement shall be treated as falling within at paragraph if it is
one whereunder the transferor or the transferee, or a company
associated with either as there-mentioned, was to be enabled to
provide any of the consideration, or was to part with any of it, by
or in consequence of the carrying out of a transaction or transactions
involving, or any of them involving, a payment or other disposition
by a person other than a company so associated.
Voluntary conveyance inter vivos
16. (1) Any conveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary
disposition inter vivos shall be chargeable with the like stamp duty
as if it were a conveyance or transfer on sale.


Stamp 29
(2) The Collector may be required to express his opinion under
section 36 on any conveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary
disposition inter vivos, and no such conveyance or transfer shall
be deemed to be duly stamped unless the Collector has expressed
his opinion thereon in accordance with that section.
(3) Any conveyance or transfer, not being a disposition made
in favour of a purchaser or incumbrancer or other person in good
faith and for valuable consideration, shall, for the purposes of this
section, be deemed to be a conveyance or transfer operating as a
voluntary disposition inter vivos, and (except where marriage is
the consideration) the consideration for any conveyance or transfer
shall not for this purpose be deemed to be valuable consideration
where by reason of the inadequacy of the sum paid as consideration
or other circumstances the conveyance or transfer confers a substantial
benefit on the person to whom the property is conveyed or transferred.
(4) A conveyance or transfer made for nominal consideration
for the purpose of securing the repayment of an advance or loan
or made for effectuating the appointment of a new trustee or the
retirement of a trustee, whether the trust is expressed or implied,
or under which no beneficial interest passes in the property conveyed
or transferred, or made to a beneficiary by a trustee or other person
in a fiduciary capacity under any trust, whether expressed or implied,
shall not be charged with duty under this section, and this subsection
shall have effect notwithstanding that the circumstances exempting
the conveyance or transfer from charge under this section are not
set forth in the conveyance or transfer.
How transfer for debts, stocks, securities, future payments and
further consideration to be charged
17. (1) Where any property is transferred—
(a) in consideration, wholly or in part, of any debt or of any
stock or marketable security; or
(b) subject, either certainly or contingently, to the payment
or transfer of any money or stock, whether being or
constituting a charge or incumbrance upon the property
or not,


the instrument of transfer shall be chargeable with ad valorem
duty calculated at the rates specified under Item 32(a) in the First
Schedule upon either the value of the debt, stock or marketable
security, as the case may be, or the market value of the property
as on the date of execution, whichever be the greater.
(2) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration,
for a transfer of property consists of any security other than a
marketable security, the instrument of transfer shall be chargeable
with ad valorem duty calculated at the rates specified under Item
32(a) in the First Schedule upon either the amount due upon the
security for principal and interest or, in the case of a security given
under a scheme of financing made according to the syariah, any
sum due and payable in addition to the principal, or upon the
market value of the property as on the date of execution, whichever
be the greater.
(3) A conveyance on sale made for any consideration in respect
whereof it is chargeable with ad valorem duty, and in further
consideration of a covenant by the purchaser to make, or of his
having previously made, any substantial improvement of or addition
to the property transferred to him or of any covenant relating to
the subject-matter of the transfer, is not chargeable, and shall be
deemed not to have been chargeable, with any duty in respect of
such further consideration.
Duties on foreclosure orders
18. Subject to section 17, a decree or order for, or having the
effect of an order for foreclosure in respect of mortgaged property
shall be chargeable with duty as if it were a conveyance of such
property on sale:
Provided that—
(a) the ad valorem stamp duty upon any such decree or order
shall not exceed the duty on a sum equal to the value of
the property to which the decree or order relates, and
where the decree or order states that value such statement
shall be conclusive for the purpose of determining the
amount of the duty; and
(b) where ad valorem stamp duty is paid upon such decree
or order, any conveyance following upon such decree or
order shall be exempt from the ad valorem stamp duty.


Stamp 31
Valuation in case of annuity
19. (1) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration,
for a conveyance on sale consists of money payable periodically
for a definite period not exceeding twenty years, so that the total
amount to be paid can be previously ascertained, the conveyance
shall be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem
duty on such total amount.
(2) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration,
for a conveyance on sale consists of money payable periodically
for a definite period exceeding twenty years or in perpetuity, or
for any indefinite period not terminable with life, the conveyance
is to be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem
duty on the total amount which will or may, according to the terms
of sale, be payable during the period of twenty years next after the
day of the date of the instrument.
(3) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration,
for a conveyance on sale consists of money payable periodically
during any life or lives, the conveyance shall be charged in respect
of that consideration with ad valorem duty on the amount which
will or may, according to the terms of sale, be payable during the
period of twelve years next after the day of the date of the instrument.
(4) No conveyance on sale chargeable with ad valorem duty in
respect of any periodical payments, and containing also provision
for securing the payments, shall be charged with any duty in
respect of such provision, and no separate instrument made in that
case for securing the payments is to be charged with any higher
duty than ten ringgit.
Direction as to duty in case of certain conveyances
20. (1) Where property contracted to be sold for one consideration
for the whole is conveyed to the purchaser in separate parts or
parcels by different instruments, the consideration shall be apportioned
in such manner as the parties think fit, so that a distinct consideration
for each separate part or parcel is set forth in the conveyance
relating thereto, and such conveyance shall be chargeable with ad
valorem duty in respect of such distinct consideration.


(2) Where property contracted to be purchased for one
consideration for the whole by two or more persons jointly, or by
any person for himself and others, or wholly for others, is conveyed
in parts or parcels by separate instruments to the person by or for
whom the same was purchased for distinct parts of the consideration,
the conveyance for each separate part or parcel shall be chargeable
with ad valorem duty in respect of the distinct part of the consideration
therein specified.
(3) Where a person having contracted for the purchase of any
property but not having obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts
to sell the same to any other person and the property is in consequence
conveyed immediately to the sub-purchaser, the conveyance shall
be chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of the consideration
moving from the sub-purchaser.
(4) Where a person, having contracted for the purchase of any
property but not having obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts
to sell the whole, or any part thereof, to any other person or
persons and the property is in consequence conveyed by the original
seller to different persons in parts or parcels, the conveyance of
each part or parcel sold to a sub-purchaser shall be chargeable with
ad valorem duty in respect only of the consideration moving from
the sub-purchaser thereof, without regard to the amount or value
of the original consideration; and the conveyance of the residue,
if any, of such property to the original purchaser shall be chargeable
with ad valorem duty in the manner specified by section 12A and
Item 32(a) of the First Schedule.
(5) Where a sub-purchaser takes an actual conveyance of the
interest of the person immediately selling to him, which is chargeable
with ad valorem duty in respect of the consideration moving from
him and is duly stamped accordingly, any conveyance to be afterwards
made to him of the same property by the original seller shall be
chargeable with a duty equal to that which would be chargeable
on a conveyance for the consideration obtained by such original
seller, or where such duty would exceed ten ringgit with a duty
of ten ringgit.


Stamp 33
Exchange of real property
20A. Where upon the exchange of any real property for any other
real property, or upon the partition or division of any real property,
any consideration is paid or given, or agreed to be paid or given,
for equality:
(a) the principal or only instrument whereby the exchange
or partition or division is affected is to be charged with
the same ad valorem duty as a conveyance on sale for
the consideration, and with that duty only; and
(b) where in any such case there are several instruments for
completing the title of either party, the principal instrument
is to be ascertained and the other instruments are to be
charged, with duty in the manner hereinbefore provided
in the case of several instruments of conveyance.
Vesting or transfer of an undivided interest in property
20B. (1) Every conveyance either on sale or by way of gift or
settlement which operates to vest or transfer an undivided interest
in real property, shall contain an affidavit of the transferee
certifying that the transaction effected by the instrument does not
form part of a larger transaction or series of transactions completed
or to be completed within a period of twelve months after the date
of the first of the instruments employed to complete the conveyance
of the property.
(2) Where the transaction effected by the instrument forms part
of a larger transaction or series of transactions, ad valorem duty
upon that instrument and upon any other instrument following
shall be calculated on the aggregate of the consideration or market
values of the separate parts or parcels being conveyed, whichever
is the higher, at the rates specified under Item 32(a) of the First
Schedule.
Certain contracts to be chargeable as conveyances on sale
21. (1) Any contract or agreement made in Malaysia under seal
or under hand only, for the sale of any equitable estate or interest
in any property whatsoever, or for the sale of any estate or interest
in any property except lands, tenements, hereditaments, or heritages,
or property locally situate out of Malaysia, or goods, wares or


merchandise, or stock, or marketable securities, or any ship or
vessel, or part interest, share or property of or in any ship or
vessel, shall be charged with the same ad valorem duty, to be paid
by the purchaser, as if it were an actual conveyance on sale of the
estate, interest or property contracted or agreed to be sold.
(2) Where the purchaser has paid the said ad valorem duty and,
before having obtained conveyance or transfer of the property,
enters into a contract or agreement for the sale of the same, the
contract or agreement shall be charged, if the consideration for
that sale is in excess of the consideration for the original sale, with
the ad valorem duty payable in respect of such excess consideration,
and in any other case with the fixed duty of ten ringgit or three
ringgit as the case may require.
(3) Where duty has been duly paid in conformity with the foregoing
provisions, the conveyance or transfer made to the purchaser or
sub-purchaser, or any other person on his behalf or by his direction,
shall not be chargeable with any duty, and the Collector, upon
application, either shall denote the payment of the ad valorem
duty upon the conveyance or transfer or shall transfer the ad
valorem duty thereto upon production of the contract or agreement,
or contracts or agreements, duly stamped.
(4) (Deleted by Act A723).
(5) (Deleted by Act A723).
(6) (Deleted by Act A723).
(7) The ad valorem duty paid upon any such contract or agreement
shall be returned by the Collector in case the contract or agreement
be afterwards rescinded or annulled, or for any other reason be not
substantially performed or carried into effect, so as to operate as
or be followed by a conveyance or transfer.
Sale of annuity or right not before in existence
22. Where upon the sale of any annuity or other right not before
in existence such annuity or other right is not created by actual
grant or conveyance, but is only secured by bond, warrant of
attorney, covenant, contract or otherwise, the bond or other instrument,
or some one of such instruments, if there be more than one, shall


Stamp 35
be charged with the same duty as an actual grant or conveyance,
and shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed an instrument of
conveyance on sale.
What is to be deemed a conveyance, not being a sale or mortgage
23. Every instrument and every decree or order of any court,
whereby any property on any occasion, except a sale or mortgage,
is transferred to or vested in any person, shall be charged as a
conveyance or transfer of property.
Leases, how to be charged in respect of produce, etc.
24. (1) Where the consideration or any part of the consideration
for which a lease is granted or agreed to be granted consists of
any produce or other goods, the value of the produce or goods
shall be deemed a consideration in respect of which the lease or
agreement is chargeable with ad valorem duty.
(2) Where it is stipulated that the value of the produce or goods
is to amount at least to, or is not to exceed, a given sum, or where
the lessee is specially charged with, or has the option of paying
after any permanent rate of conversion, the value of the produce
or goods shall, for the purpose of assessing the ad valorem duty,
be estimated at the given sum, or according to such permanent
rate.
(3) A lease or agreement for a lease made either wholly or
partially for any such consideration, if it contains a statement of
the value thereof and is stamped in accordance with the statement,
shall, so far as regards the subject matter of the statement, be
deemed duly stamped, unless or until it is otherwise shown that
the statement is incorrect, and that the lease or agreement is in fact
not duly stamped.
Directions as to duty upon leases, etc.
25. (1) A lease or agreement for a lease or with respect to any
letting shall not be charged with any duty in respect of any penal
rent, or increased rent in the nature of a penal rent, thereby reserved
or agreed to be reserved or made payable or by reason of being
made in consideration of the surrender or abandonment of any
existing lease, or agreement of or relating to the same subject
matter.


(2) A lease made for any consideration in respect whereof it is
chargeable with ad valorem duty, and in further consideration
either of a covenant by the lessee to make, or of his having previously
made, any substantial improvement of or addition to the property
demised to him, or of any convenant relating to the matter of the
lease, shall not be charged with any duty in respect of such further
consideration, except where such further consideration consists of
a covenant which if it were contained in a separate deed would
be chargeable with ad valorem duty.
(3) An instrument whereby the rent reserved by any other
instrument chargeable with duty and duly stamped as a lease is
increased shall not be charged with duty otherwise than as a lease
in consideration of the additional rent thereby made payable.
Direction as to duty upon transfer of stock
26. (1) A security for the transfer or re-transfer of any stock shall
be charged with the same duty as a similar security for a sum of
money equal in amount to the value of the stock; and a transfer,
assignment or disposition or assignation of any such security and
a reconveyance, release, discharge, surrender, re-surrender, warrant
to vacate or renunciation of any such security shall be charged
with the same duty as an instrument of the same description relating
to a sum of money equal in amount to the value of the stock.
(2) A security for the payment of any rentcharge, annuity or
periodical payments by way of repayment, or in satisfaction or
discharge of any loan, advance or payment intended to be so
repaid, satisfied or discharged, shall be charged with the same duty
as a similar security for the payment of the sum of money so lent,
advanced or paid.
(3) A transfer of a duly stamped security, and a security by way
of further charge for money or stock, added to money or stock
previously secured by a duly stamped instrument, shall not be
charged with any duty by reason of its containing any further or
additional security for the money or stock transferred or previously
secured, or the interest or dividends thereof, or any new convenant,
proviso, power, stipulation or agreement in relation thereto, or any
further assurance of the property comprised in the transferred or
previous security.


Stamp 37
(4) An instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty as a mortgage
shall not be charged with any further duty by reason of the equity
of redemption in the mortgaged property being thereby conveyed
or limited in any other manner than to a purchaser, or in trust for,
or according to the direction of, a purchaser.
27. (Deleted by Act A723).
Security for future advances, how to be charged
28. (1) A security for the payment or repayment of money to be
lent, advanced or paid, or which may become due upon an account
current, either with or without money previously due, shall be
charged, where the total amount secured or to be ultimately
recoverable is in any way limited, with the same duty as a security
for the amount so limited.
(2) Where such total amount is unlimited, the security is to be
available for such an amount only as the ad valorem duty stamped
thereon extends to cover; but where any advance or loan is made
in excess of the amount covered by that duty the security shall for
the purpose of stamp duty be deemed to be a new and separate
instrument bearing date on the day on which the advance or loan
is made.
(3) No money to be advanced for the insurance of any property
comprised in the security against damage by fire, or for keeping
up any policy of life insurance comprised in the security, or for
effecting in lieu thereof any new policy, shall be reckoned as
forming part of the amount in respect whereof the security is
chargeable with ad valorem duty.
29. (Deleted by Act A723).
Directions as to duty upon a primary or principal security
29A. In determining whether an instrument is the only, principal
or primary security for any annuity, or for any sum or sums of
money or for the payment or repayment of money within the
meaning of Item 22(1) or Item 27(a) in the First Schedule, no
account shall be taken of any other instrument which is a security
for the same annuity, sum or sums of money or for the same
payment or repayment, as the case may be, or for any part thereof,
unless that other instrument is chargeable with stamp duty under
either of the said paragraphs and is duly stamped.


Directions as to sea policy
30. (1) No contract for sea insurance, other than such insurance
as is referred to in section 363 of the Merchant Shipping Ordinance
1952 [Ord. No 70 of 1952] or any corresponding provision in any
other written law for the time being in force in Sabah or Sarawak
shall be valid unless the same is expressed in a policy of sea
insurance.
(2) No policy of sea insurance made for time shall be made for
any time exceeding twelve months.
(3) No policy of sea insurance shall be valid unless it specifies
the particular risk or adventure or the time for which it is made,
the names of the subscribers or underwriters, and the amount or
amounts insured.
(4) Where any sea insurance is made for or upon a voyage and
also for time, or to extend to or cover any time beyond thirty days
after the ship shall have arrived at her destination and been there
moored at anchor, the policy shall be charged with duty as a policy
for or upon a voyage and also with duty as a policy for time.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section a policy
of sea insurance made for time may contain a continuation clause,
and such a policy shall not be invalid on the ground only that by
reason of the continuation clause it may become available for a
period exceeding twelve months.
(6) There shall be charged on a policy of sea insurance containing
a continuation clause the stamp duty mentioned in the First Schedule
in addition to the stamp duty which is otherwise chargeable on the
policy.
(7) If the risk covered by the continuation clause attaches and
a new policy is not issued covering the risk, the continuation
clause shall be deemed to be a new and separate contract of sea
insurance expressed in the policy in which it is contained, but not
covered by the stamp thereon, and the policy shall be stamped in
respect of that contract accordingly, but may be so stamped without
penalty at any time not exceeding thirty days after the risk has so
attached.


Stamp 39
(8) Where any person, in consideration of any sum of money
paid or to be paid for additional freight or otherwise, agrees to take
upon himself any risk attending goods, merchandise or property
of any description whatever while on board of any ship or vessel,
or engages to indemnify the owner of any such goods, merchandise
or property from any risk, loss or damage such agreement or
engagement shall be deemed to be a contract for sea insurance.
Legal alteration in sea policies may be made
31. Nothing in this Act shall prohibit the making of any alteration
which may lawfully be made in the terms and conditions of any
policy of sea insurance after the policy has been underwritten:
Provided that—
(a) the alteration is made before notice of the determination
of the risk originally insured;
(b) it does not prolong the time covered by the insurance
thereby made beyond the period of six months in the case
of a policy made for a less period than six months, or beyond
the period of twelve months in the case of a policy made
for a greater period than six months;
(c) the articles insured remain the property of the same person
or persons; and
(d) no additional or further sum is insured by reason or
means of the alteration.
Directions as to certain contract notes
32. (1) Where a contract note is a continuation or carrying over
note made for the purpose of continuing or carrying over any
transaction for the sale or purchase of stock or marketable securities,
the contract note, although it is made in respect of both a sale and
purchase, shall be charged with duty under this section as if it
related to one of those transactions only, and, if different rates of
duty are chargeable in respect of those transactions, to that one of
those transactions which would render the contract note chargeable
at the highest rate.
(2) Where a contract note advises the sale or purchase of more
than one description of stock or marketable security, the note shall
be deemed to be as many contract notes as they are descriptions
of stocks or securities sold or purchased.


Obligation to execute contract note
32A. (1) Any person who effects any sale or purchase of any
stock or marketable security as a dealer or agent, and any person
who, by way of business—
(a) deals or holds himself out as dealing as a principal in any
stock or marketable security; and
(b) buys or sells any stock or marketable security,
shall forthwith make and execute a contract note, and transmit the
note to his principal, or to the vendor or purchaser of the stock
or marketable security, as the case may be.
(2) No dealer, agent or other person shall have any legal claim
to any charge for brokerage, commission or agency with reference
to the sale or purchase of any stock or marketable security if he
fails to comply with this section.
PART IV
LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF DUTY
Duty by whom payable
33. The expense of providing the proper stamp duty be borne—
(a) in the case of the instruments described in the first column
of the Third Schedule, by the person mentioned in the
second column of such Schedule;
(b) in the case of every other instrument, by the person
drawing, making or executing such instrument.
34. (Deleted by Act 476).
Exemptions
35. The instruments appearing under the heading of “General
Exemptions” in the First Schedule shall not be chargeable with
duty.


Stamp 41
PART V
ADJUDICATION AS TO STAMPS
Mode of adjudication as to proper stamp
36. (1) When any executed instrument, other than an instrument
which by virtue of section 47 cannot be stamped after execution,
is brought to the Collector, and the person bringing it applies to
have the opinion of that officer as to the duty, if any, with which
it is chargeable, and pays a fee of ten ringgit, the Collector shall
assess the duty, if any, with which in his judgment the instrument
is chargeable.
(2) For this purpose the Collector may require an abstract of the
instrument to be furnished, and also such affidavit or other evidence
as he deems necessary to prove that all the facts and circumstances
affecting the liability of the instrument to duty, or the amount of
the duty chargeable thereon, are fully and truly set forth therein,
and may refuse to proceed upon any such application until such
abstract and evidence have been furnished to him accordingly.
(3) No evidence furnished in pursuance of this section shall be
used against any person in any civil proceeding, except in an
inquiry as to the duty with which the instrument to which it relates
is chargeable.
(4) Every person by whom any such evidence is furnished shall,
on payment of the full duty with which the instrument to which
it relates is chargeable, be relieved from any penalty which he has
incurred under this Act by reason of the omission to state truly in
such instrument any of the facts or circumstances aforesaid.
Certificate by Collector
37. (1) When an instruments brought to the Collector under section
36 is in his opinion one of a description chargeable with duty,
and—
(a) the Collector determines that it is already fully stamped;
or
(b) the duty assessed by the Collector under such section, or
such a sum as, with the duty already paid in respect of
the instrument, is equal to the duty so assessed, has been
paid;


the Collector shall certify by indorsement on such instrument that
the full duty, stating the amount, with which it is chargeable, has
been paid.
(2) When such instrument is in his opinion not chargeable with
duty the Collector shall certify in manner aforesaid that such
instrument is not so chargeable.
(3) Any instrument upon which an indorsement has been made
under this section shall be deemed to be duly stamped or not
chargeable with duty, as the case may be; and, if chargeable with
duty, shall be receivable in evidence or otherwise and may be
acted upon and registered as if it had been originally duly stamped.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to require the Collector
to certify that the full duty with which an instrument is chargeable
has been paid—
(a) unless any penalty chargeable in respect of the instrument
under this Act has been paid; or
(b) if the instrument cannot by law be stamped.
Exception to sections 36 and 37
38. Nothing in sections 36 and 37 shall extend to any instrument
chargeable with ad valorem duty and made as a security for money
or stock without limit.
Notice of objection
38A. (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with an assessment of the
Collector under section 36 may, by written notice (referred to in
this Act as “notice of objection”), object to the assessment and
apply to the Collector to review the assessment.
(2) Every notice of objection shall state the grounds of objection
to the Collector’s assessment and shall be made within thirty days
after the date of the assessment or such further period as the
Collector may allow in any particular case.
(3) The person giving a notice of objection shall furnish further
particulars and information in relation to the grounds of the objection
if required to do so by the Collector in writing.


Stamp 43
(4) The Collector shall, on receipt of a notice of objection and
such further particulars and information as he may require under
subsection (3), review the assessment.
(5) After the objection has been determined, the Collector shall
notify the person in writing of his decision.
(6) Where, on review, it appears to the Collector that the amount
of duty originally assessed is excessive, he may cancel the original
assessment and make such other assessment in substitution of the
original assessment and shall serve on the person a notice of
substituted assessment.
(7) The making of an objection shall not relieve the person of
liability to pay the duty as required by this Act.
(8) Any reference in this Act to an assessment shall be construed
as including a reference to a substituted assessment under
subsection (6).
Appeal to High Court
39. (1) Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Collector under subsection 38A(5) may, within twenty-one days
after the person is notified in writing of that decision and upon
payment of duty in conformity therewith, appeal against the decision
to the High Court by filing a notice of appeal with the High Court
and may for that purpose require the Collector to state and sign
a case, setting forth the question upon which is opinion was required,
and the decision made by him.
(1A) Where a notice of appeal has been filed under subsection
(1), the notice shall be served on the Collector within the time
stipulated for the filing of the notice of appeal.
(2) The Collector shall thereupon state and sign a case and
deliver the same to the person by whom it is required, and the case
may, within seven days thereafter or within such further time as
the Court may allow, be set down by him for hearing.
(3) Upon the hearing of the case the Court shall determine the
question submitted, and, if the instrument in question is in the
opinion of the Court chargeable with any duty, shall assess the
duty with which it is chargeable.


(4) If it is decided by the Court that the assessment of the
Collector is erroneous, any excess of duty which may have been
paid in conformity with the erroneous assessment, together with
any fine or penalty which may have been paid in consequence
thereof, shall be ordered by the Court to be repaid to the appellant,
with or without costs as the Court may determine.
(5) If the assessment of the Collector is confirmed the Court
may make an order for payment to the Collector of the costs
incurred by him in relation to the appeal.
Time of stamping after adjudication
40. When the opinion of the Collector with respect to the amount
of duty with which an instrument is chargeable has been required,
the instrument shall be stamped in accordance with the assessment
of the Collector within fourteen days after notice of the assessment,
and in the case of an application to the High Court under section
39 within fourteen days after the issue of the order of the Court,
or within such further period, in either case, as the Collector when
giving notice of assessment or the Court when making the order,
may specify:
Provided that the said period of fourteen days or any further
period specified by the Collector or the Court may, on application
made before the period or further period expires, be extended or
further extended by the Collector or the Court, as the case may
be.
PART VI
OF THE TIME OF STAMPING INSTRUMENTS
Instruments executed in Malaysia
41. Save where express provision to the contrary is contained in
this Act, all instruments chargeable with duty and executed by any
person in Malaysia shall be stamped before or at the time of
execution.
Instruments executed out of Malaysia
42. (1) Every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out
of Malaysia, and not being a cheque or promissory note, may be
stamped within thirty days after it has first been received in Malaysia.


Stamp 45
(2) When any such instrument is brought to him for stamping
the Collector may require that the date of receipt thereof be verified
by production of the envelope in which the same was received or
of any accompanying letter, or, unless the date of the instrument
shows that it must have been received within thirty days, by statutory
declaration.
Bills, cheques or notes drawn out of Malaysia
43. (1) Every person into whose hands any cheque or promissory
note drawn or made out of Malaysia comes in Malaysia before it
is stamped shall, before he presents the same for acceptance or
payment, or endorses, transfers or otherwise negotiates the same
in Malaysia, affix thereto the proper adhesive stamp and cancel the
same.
(2) If, at the time when any such cheque or note comes into the
hands of any bona fide holder in Malaysia, the proper adhesive
stamp is affixed thereto and duly cancelled, such stamp shall, so
far as relates to such holder, be deemed to have been duly affixed
and cancelled.
(3) If, at the time when any such cheque or note comes into the
hands of any bona fide holder thereof in Malaysia, there is affixed
thereto the proper adhesive stamp not duly cancelled, it shall be
competent for such holder to cancel such stamp as if he were the
person by whom it was affixed, and upon his so doing the cheque
or note shall be deemed duly stamped, and as valid and available
as if the stamp had been cancelled by the person by whom it was
affixed.
(4) Nothing contained in subsection (2) or (3) shall relieve any
person from any penalty incurred by him for omitting to affix or
cancel a stamp.
(5) A cheque or promissory note drawn or made out of Malaysia
which has not been duly stamped under subsection (1) may be
stamped after it has been presented for acceptance or payment, or
endorsed, transferred or otherwise negotiated in Malaysia—
(a) if it is stamped within thirty days after it has been first
received in Malaysia, on payment in addition to the stamp
duty of a penalty of ten ringgit or of the amount of the
deficient duty, whichever penalty is the greater; or


(b) if it is stamped after the expiration of thirty days after
it has been received in Malaysia, on payment in addition
to the stamp duty of a penalty of twenty-five ringgit or
four times the amount of the deficient duty, whichever
penalty is the greater.
(6) The Collector may reduce or remit any penalty prescribed
by this section.
Bills of exchange and cheques accepted or payable outside
Malaysia
44. Notwithstanding anything in this Act contained, a cheque
which is presented for acceptance, or accepted, or payable outside
Malaysia shall not be invalid by reason only that it is not stamped
in accordance with this Act, and any such cheque which is unstamped
or insufficiently stamped may be received in evidence on payment
of the proper duty and the penalty, if any, payable under section
47A, and such cheque shall, for the purposes of this section, be
deemed to be an instrument which may be stamped after the first
execution thereof under such section.
Power of drawee to stamp bills or cheques
45. (1) Where any cheque, is presented for payment unstamped,
the person to whom it is so presented may affix thereto the proper
adhesive stamp, and upon cancelling the same in manner hereinbefore
provided, may pay the sum payable upon such cheque and may
charge the duty against the person who ought to have paid the
same or deduct it from the sum payable as aforesaid, and such
cheque shall, so far as respects the duty, be deemed good and
valid.
(2) Nothing herein shall relieve any person from any penalty or
proceeding to which he may be liable in relation to such cheque.
Transfers of shares
46. Transfers of shares which are numbered shall not be stamped
until the numbers of the shares are entered.


Stamp 47
Stamping of instrument after execution
47. Save where other express provision is made by this or any
other Act, any unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument not
being a cheque or promissory note drawn or made within Malaysia
may be stamped after execution on payment of the unpaid duty if
the instrument is presented for stamping within thirty days of its
execution if executed within Malaysia, or within thirty days after
it has been first received in Malaysia if it has been executed out
of Malaysia.
Penalty for late stamping
47A. (1) An instrument which is not stamped within the period
specified in or under section 40 or 47 may be stamped on payment
of the unpaid duty and a penalty of—
(a) twenty-five ringgit or five per centum of the amount of
the deficient duty, whichever sum be the greater, if the
instrument is stamped within 3 months after the time for
stamping;
(b) fifty ringgit or ten per centum of the amount of the
deficient duty, whichever sum be the greater, if the
instrument is stamped later than 3 months but not later
than 6 months after the time for stamping; or
(c) one hundred ringgit or twenty per centum of the amount
of the deficient duty, whichever sum be the greater, in
any other case.
(2) The Collector may, if he thinks fit, reduce or remit such
penalty or the further amount payable under paragraph 9(1)(c).
Denoting penalty
48. The payment of any penalty prescribed under section 43 or
section 47A shall be denoted on the instrument by a stamp duly
cancelled or by means of an impressed stamp or, in the case of
Sabah and Sarawak, by affixing an official receipt to the instrument,
and shall be certified by the Collector.


Persons liable to penalty
49. The person liable to any penalty under section 43 or section
47A shall be the person by whom the duty is payable in accordance
with Part IV.
Penalty, how recoverable
50. All duties, penalties and other sums required to be paid under
this Part shall be debts due to the Government and shall be recoverable
by any of the ways and means in force for the time being for the
recovery of debts due to the Government.
PART VII
INSTRUMENTS NOT DULY STAMPED
Examination and impounding of instruments
51. (1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority
to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public office,
except an officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable,
in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance
of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument
is not duly stamped, impound the same.
(2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every
instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him
in order to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the
value and description required by the law in force in Malaysia
when such instrument was executed or first executed:
Provided that—
(a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any
Magistrate or Judge to examine or impound, if he does
not think fit to do so, any instrument coming before him
in the course of any criminal proceeding;
(b) in the case of a Judge of the High Court, the duty of
examining and impounding any instrument under this
section shall be performed by the Registrar.


Stamp 49
Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence
52. (1) No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in
evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent
of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon,
registered, or authenticated by any such person or by any public
officer, unless such instrument is duly stamped:
Provided that—
(a) any such instrument shall, subject to all just exceptions,
be admitted in evidence on payment of the duty and the
penalty, if any, chargeable in respect thereof under section
43 or 47A;
(b) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of
any instrument in evidence in any criminal court;
(c) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of
any instrument in evidence in any court when such
instrument has been executed by or on behalf of the
Government of Malaysia or of any State or of the
Government of any other country or where it bears the
certificate of the Collector as provided by this Act.
(2) No instrument executed outside Malaysia and relating to
any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done,
in any part of Malaysia shall, except in the circumstances mentioned
in subsection (1), be given in evidence or referred to or used in
any manner in any proceedings in any Court or before any tribunal,
board, commission, committee or similar body by whatever name
called, established under any written law, unless it is duly stamped
in accordance with the law in force in that part of Malaysia at the
time when it was first executed relating to stamp duty which would
have been chargeable on any such instrument if it had been executed
in that part of Malaysia.
(3) In subsection 2, “part of Malaysia” includes any territory
which is part of Malaysia at the time of the proceedings,
notwithstanding that it was not part of Malaysia when the instrument
was executed.


Instruments impounded how dealt with
53. (1) When the person impounding an instrument under section
51 has by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence
and admits such instrument in evidence on payment of duty and
penalty, if any, he shall, as soon as may be convenient, send such
instrument, together with the amount of the duty and penalty, if
any, paid in respect thereof, to the Collector; and the Collector
shall stamp such instrument in accordance with section 43 or 47A
and shall return it to the person who sent it to him.
(2) In every other case in which an instrument is impounded
under section 51, the person impounding the same shall send it
forthwith to the Collector; and the Collector, on payment of the
duty and penalty, if any, chargeable in respect thereof under section
43 or 47A, shall stamp such instrument and shall return it to the
person who sent it to him, but if such duty and penalty, if any,
be not paid, he shall retain such instrument.
(3) Any penalty levied under this section may be reduced or
remitted in the manner provided for by subsection 47A(2).
54. (Deleted by Act 476).
Agreements evidenced by letters how stamped
55. (1) Where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by
correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one of
the letters bears the proper stamp the contract or agreement shall
be deemed to be duly stamped.
(2) Where an agreement is evidenced by one or more letters
between parties, which letters were not stamped before being used,
it shall be lawful for the Collector, on being satisfied that the
omission to have the letter or letters stamped did not arise from
an intention to evade the payment of stamp duty, to affix the
proper stamp on the letter or any one of the letters evidencing the
contract on payment of the duty and a further duty of ten ringgit
by way of adjudication fee.
(3) On stamping any letter under this section the Collector shall
write or cause to be written on the letter the words “Duly Stamped”
and shall add his signature or initials thereto and the day, month
and year on which the letter was stamped.


Stamp 51
(4) Where a letter is so stamped all the letters forming together
the agreement may be used in evidence to prove the agreement
stated or partly stated in the letter so stamped.
Recovery of duty and penalty
56. When any duty or penalty has been paid in respect of any
instrument by any person, any by agreement or under this Act or
of any other written law in force at the time when such instrument
was executed or first executed some other person was liable to pay
the duty on such instrument, the first mentioned person shall be
entitled to recover from such other person the amount of the duty
or penalty so paid, and for the purpose of such recovery any
certificate granted in respect of such instrument by the Collector
shall be conclusive evidence as to the amount of the duty and
penalty paid and the person by whom they were paid.
PART VIII
ALLOWANCE FOR SPOILED STAMPS
Allowance for spoiled stamps
57. Subject to any rules which may be made under this Act and
to the production of such evidence by statutory declaration or
otherwise as the Collector may require, allowance shall be made
by the Collector for stamps spoiled in the following cases:
(a) the stamp on any paper inadvertently and undesignedly
spoiled, obliterated or by any means rendered unfit for
the purpose intended, before the paper bears the signature
of any person or any instrument written thereon is executed
by any party;
(b) any adhesive stamp which has been inadvertently and
undesignedly spoiled or rendered unfit for use and has
not in the opinion of the Collector been affixed to any
paper;
(c) the stamp on any bill of exchange signed by or on
behalf of the drawer which has not been accepted or
made use of in any manner whatever or delivered out of
his hands for any purpose other than by way of tender
for acceptance;


(d) the stamp on any promissory note signed by or on behalf
of the maker which has not been made use of in any
manner whatever or delivered out of his hands;
(e) the stamp on any bill of exchange or promissory note
which from any omission or error has been spoiled or
rendered useless, although the same, being a bill of
exchange, may have been accepted or indorsed, or, being
a promissory note, may have been delivered to the payee,
provided that another completed and duly stamped bill
of exchange, or promissory note, is produced identical in
every particular except in the correction of the error or
omission, with the spoiled bill or note;
(f) the stamp used for any of the following instruments:
(i) an instrument executed by any party thereto, but
afterwards found to be absolutely void from the
beginning;
(ii) an instrument executed by any party thereto, but
afterwards found unfit, by reason of any error
or mistake therein, for the purpose originally
intended;
(iii) an instrument executed by any party thereto, which
has not been made use of for any purpose whatever,
and which by reason of the inability or refusal of
some necessary party to sign the same or to complete
the transaction according to the instrument is
incomplete and insufficient for the purpose for which
it was intended;
(iv) an instrument executed by any party thereto, which
by reason of the inability or refusal of any person
to act under the same, or for want of registration
within the time required by law, fails of the intended
purpose or becomes void;
(v) an instrument executed by any party thereto, which
is inadvertently and undesignedly spoiled, and in
lieu whereof another instrument made between the
same parties and for the same purpose is executed
and duly stamped, or which becomes useless in


Stamp 53
consequence of the transaction intended to be thereby
effected being effected by some other instrument
duly stamped:
Provided as follows:
(a) that the application for relief is made within twelve months
after the stamp has been spoiled or become useless or in
the case of an executed instrument after the date of the
instrument, or, if it is not dated, within twelve months
after the execution thereof by the person whom it was
first or alone executed or within such further time as the
Collector may prescribe in the case of any instrument
sent abroad for execution or when from unavoidable
circumstances any instrument for which another has been
substituted cannot be produced within the said period;
(b) that in the case of an executed instrument no legal
proceeding has been commenced in which the instrument
could or would have been given or offered in evidence,
and that the instrument is given up to be cancelled.
Allowance for misused stamps
58. When any person has inadvertently used for an instrument
liable to duty a stamp of greater value than was necessary, or has
inadvertently used a stamp for an instrument not liable to any duty,
the Collector may, on application made within twelve months after
the date of the instrument, or, if it is not dated, within twelve
months after the execution thereof by the person by whom it was
first or alone executed, and upon the instrument, if liable to duty,
being stamped with the proper duty cancel and allow as spoiled
the stamp so misused.
Allowance, how to be made
59. In any case in which allowance is made for spoiled, unused
or misused stamps, the Collector shall give in lieu thereof the same
value in money.
Stamp to include official receipt
59A. For the purposes of paragraph 57(f), sections 58 and 59,
“stamp” includes an official receipt.


PART IX
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
Not cancelling adhesive stamps
60. Any person who, being required by law to cancel an adhesive
stamp, neglects or refuses duly and effectually to do so in the
manner prescribed by subsection 7(4) shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding five hundred ringgit.
Penalty for not setting forth all the facts and circumstances
61. Any person who with intent to evade the payment of duty—
(a) executes any instrument in which all the facts and
circumstances are not truly and fully set forth as required
by section 5; or
(b) being employed or concerned in or about the preparation
of any instrument neglects or omits fully and truly to set
forth therein all the said facts and circumstances;
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred
ringgit.
62. (Deleted by Act 476).
Penalty for executing and signing documents not duly stamped
63. (1) Any person who—
(a) with intent to evade the payment of duty, draws, makes,
executes or signs, otherwise than as a witness, any
instrument whatsoever chargeable with duty without the
same being duly stamped;
(b) having drawn, made, executed or signed, other wise than
as a witness, any instrument whatsoever chargeable with
duty without the same being duly stamped, fails, without
lawful excuse, to procure the due stamping thereof within
the time within which such instrument may be stamped
without penalty under this Act; or


Stamp 55
(c) issues, endorses, transfers or presents for acceptance or
payment or accepts, pays or receives payment of or in
any manner negotiates any cheque or promissory note
without the same being duly stamped;
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred
ringgit.
(2) When any penalty has been paid in respect of any instrument
under section 43, 47A, 52 or 53, the amount of such penalty shall
be allowed in reduction of the fine, if any, subsequently imposed
under this section in respect of the same instrument upon the
person who paid such penalty.
(3) Subsection (1) shall not apply in respect of any instrument
which has been indorsed as “stamped in due time” under section
40.
(4) Paragraph (1)(b) shall not apply to the person mentioned in
the second column hereunder in respect of the execution or signature
of such of the instruments appearing in the First Schedule as are
specified in the corresponding line of the first column—
Title of instrument as Persons not liable to penalty
described in Schedule A
Conveyance, assignment, transfer or Vendor, assignor or transferor
absolute bill of sale
Lease or agreement for lease The lessor
Charge, agreement for a charge, bond, The chargee or obligee in the case
debenture, covenant and bill of sale of a transfer or reconveyance the
by way of security transferor, assignor or disposer or the
person giving up the security
(5) For the purposes of this section a cheque issued in pursuance
of section 9 shall be deemed to be duly stamped.
Penalty for failure to execute and transmit contract note
64. Any person who, being required under section 32A to make
and execute a contract note and transmit the note as so required,
refuses or neglects to make and execute the contract note or to so
transmit the note shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand
five hundred ringgit.


Penalty for post-dating bills
65. Any person who with intent to evade the payment of duty—
(a) draws, makes or issues any promissory note bearing a
date subsequent to that on which such note is actually
drawn or made; or
(b) knowing that such note has been so postdated, endorses,
transfers, presents for acceptance or payment or accepts,
pays or receives payment of such note or in any manner
negotiates the same,
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred
ringgit.
66. (Deleted by Act A723).
Penalty for not making out policy other than on sea insurance
or making one not duly stamped
67. Any person who—
(a) receives, or takes credit for any premium or consideration
for any insurance other than a sea insurance, and does not
within one month after receiving or taking credit for the
premium or consideration make out and execute a duly
stamped policy of insurance; or
(b) makes, executes, or delivers out, or pays or allows in
account, or agrees to pay or allow in account, any money
upon or in respect of any policy other than a policy of
sea insurance which is not duly stamped,
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit.
Provided that on application and for good cause shown by any
person the Minister of Finance may extend the period mentioned
in paragraph (a) of this section to a period not exceeding three
months in favour of such person.
Penalty for assuring on sea insurance unless under policy duly
stamped
68. (1) Any person who—
(a) becomes an assurer upon any sea insurance or enters into
any contract for sea insurance, or directly or indirectly
receives or contracts or takes credit in account for any


Stamp 57
premium or consideration for any sea insurance, or
knowingly takes upon himself any risk, or renders himself
liable to pay, or pays any sum of money upon any loss,
peril or contingency relative to any sea insurance, unless
the insurance is expressed in a policy of sea insurance
duly stamped;
(b) makes or effects or knowingly procures to be made or
effected any sea insurance, or directly or indirectly gives
or pays, or renders himself liable to pay, any premium
or consideration for any sea insurance, or enters into any
contract for sea insurance unless the insurance is expressed
in a policy of sea insurance duly stamped; or
(c) is concerned in any fraudulent contrivance or device, or
is guilty of any wilful act, neglect or omission with intent
to evade the duties payable on policies of sea insurance
or whereby the duties may be evaded,
shall for every such offence be liable to a fine not exceeding one
thousand ringgit.
Broker or agent
(2) Every broker, agent or other person negotiating or transacting
any sea insurance contrary to the true intent and meaning of this
Act, or executing any policy of sea insurance upon paper not duly
stamped, shall for every such offence be liable to a fine not exceeding
one thousand ringgit and shall not have any legal claim to any
charge for brokerage, commission or agency or for any money
expended or paid by him with reference to the insurance, and any
money paid to him in respect of any such charge shall be deemed
to be paid without consideration, and shall remain the property of
his employer.
Penalty for making or issuing pretended copies
(3) If any person makes or issues, or causes to be made or
issued, any document purporting to be a copy of a policy of sea
insurance and there is not at the time of the making or issue in
existence a policy duly stamped whereof the said document is a
copy, he shall for such offence, in addition to any other fine or
penalty to which he is liable, be liable to a fine not exceeding one
thousand ringgit.


Penalty for issuing share warrant, etc., not duly stamped
69. (1) If a share warrant or stock certificate to bearer is issued
without being duly stamped, the company issuing the same, and
also every person who, at the time when it is issued, is the managing
director or secretary or other principal officer of the company,
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand five hundred
ringgit.
(2) If any person whose office it is to enrol, register, or enter
in or upon any rolls, books or records any instrument chargeable
with duty, enrols, registers or enters any such instrument not being
duly stamped, he shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand
five hundred ringgit.
70. (Deleted by Act A723).
Penalty for unauthorized dealing in stamps
71. Any person who, not being duly appointed in accordance
with rules made under section 82 to sell and distribute stamps,
deals in any way in stamps shall, for every such offence, be liable
to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit.
Penalty for hawking stamps
72. (1) Any person, who hawks or carries about for sale or exchange
any stamps shall, in addition to any other fine or penalty to which
he may be liable, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand
ringgit.
(2) All stamps which are found in the possession of the offender
shall be forfeited, and shall be delivered to the Collector to be
disposed of as he thinks fit.
Postage stamps
73. Nothing in this Act shall prevent the sale of stamps at any
post office established under the *Post Office Act 1947 [Act 211],
nor the sale of stamps by any person licensed for that purpose
under regulations made under that Act, nor the sale or exchange
of postage or revenue stamps for philatelic purposes.
*NOTE—The Post Office Act 1947 [Act 211] has since been repealed by the Postal Services Act 1991 [Act
465]–see subsection 50(1) of Act 465.


Stamp 59
Fraud in relation to duty
74. Any person who practises or is concerned in any fraudulent
act, contrivance or device not specially provided for by law, with
intent to defraud the Government of any duty, shall be liable to
a fine of five thousand ringgit.
Institution and conduct of prosecution
75. (1) No prosecution in respect of any offence punishable under
this Act shall be instituted without the sanction of the Public
Prosecutor.
(2) The Collector may compound any such offence.
(3) The amount of any such composition shall be a debt due to
the Government and shall be recoverable by any of the ways and
means in force for the time being for the recovery of debts due
to the Government.
PART X
MISCELLANEOUS
Books, etc., in the custody of public officers may be inspected
without fee
76. Every public officer having in his custody any registers,
books, records, papers, documents or proceedings the inspection
whereof may tend to secure any duty, or to prove or lead to the
discovery of any fraud or omission in relation to any duty, shall
at all reasonable times permit any person authorized in writing by
the Collector to inspect for such purpose the registers, books,
records, papers, documents or proceedings and to take such notes
and extracts as he may deem necessary without fee or charge.
Collector may administer oaths
77. The Collector is authorized to administer all affirmations and
oaths which may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.


Revision of acts of Collector
78. All decisions, orders and acts of the Collector shall be open
to revision by the Minister of Finance and may by him be ordered
to be revised, altered or modified; and any instrument purporting
to have been stamped or re-stamped by order of the Minister of
Finance shall be received as duly stamped under this Act.
Responsibility for loss or damage
79. The Government shall not be responsible for the loss of or
for damage to any instrument tendered for stamping whilst in the
custody of the Collector, nor shall any officer of the Stamp Office
be responsible for such loss or damage, unless he has caused it
wilfully, fraudulently or by gross negligence.
Power to exempt, reduce or remit duties
80. (1) The Minister of Finance may by order published in the
Gazette exempt from duty, which would otherwise be chargeable
under this Act, any instrument or class of instrument or any of the
instruments belonging to that class, or any instruments when executed
by or in favour of any particular class of persons, or by or in favour
of any members of that class.
(2) The Minister of Finance may by order published in the
Gazette reduce or remit, in the whole or any part of Malaysia, the
duties with which any instrument or any particular class of
instruments, or any of the instruments belonging to such class, or
any instruments when executed by or in favour of any particular
class of persons, or by or in favour of any members of such class,
are chargeable.
(3) Any order made under subsection (1) or (2) may be made
to operate retrospectively to any date, whether before or after the
commencement of this Act, and may relate to duties chargeable
under any written law repealed by this Act as well as to duties
chargeable under this Act, and, in the case of any such exemption,
remission or reduction, any moneys paid in respect thereof shall
be refunded.


Stamp 61
Power to compound duties in case of issue of bonds, etc.
81. The Minister of Finance may by order published in the Gazette
provide for the composition or consolidation of duties in the case
of issues by any incorporated company or other body corporate of
debentures, bonds or other marketable securities.
Rules
82. The Minister of Finance may make rules—
(a) to prescribe the revenue stamps to be issued under this
Act for the payment of stamp duty, to provide for matters
relating to the issue and validity of such stamps, and to
regulate the supply and sale of stamps, including revenue
stamps, the persons by whom alone such sale is to be
conducted, and the duties and remuneration of such persons;
(b) providing for the payment by means of impressed stamps
of the duties chargeable upon any of the instruments
specified in the First Schedule and prescribing the manner
of denoting such payment;
(c) generally for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
Repeal
83. The Ordinance, Enactments and Proclamations mentioned in
the Fourth Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent specified in
the third column of such Schedule:
Provided that any subsidiary legislation, appointments and
exemptions made or granted under the written laws repealed by
this section shall continue in force and have effect as if they had
been made or granted under this Act until superseded by subsidiary
legislation, appointments and exemptions made or granted under
this Act.


FIRST SCHEDULE
[Section 4]
INSTRUMENTS CHARGEABLE WITH STAMP DUTY
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
1 (Deleted by Act 274).
2 AFFIDAVIT, STATUTORY DECLARATION RM10.00
OR DECLARATION IN WRITING on
oath or affirmation, made before a person
authorized by law to administer an oath
Exemptions
Affidavit or Declaration in writing made—
(i) for the immediate purpose of being
filed or used in any court or before any
Judge or officer of any court;
(ii) for the sole purpose of enabling any person
to receive any pension or charitable
allowance;
(iii) by a surety for an officer of the
Government or of the Malayan Railway
with regard to the surety’s means;
(iv) by any person on acceptance of an
appointment in the service of the
Government or of the Malayan Railway;
(v) under section 8 of the *Post Office Act
1947;
(vi) for renewal of Bills of Sale;
(vii) by a public officer that he or she has
attained the appropriate age entitling such
officer to a pension;
(viii) for the Collector under section 57 of
this Act; or
(ix) pursuant to any statute requirement or
in accordance with the directions of any
Government or Agency.
3 AGREEMENT for a lease…… See lease
*NOTE—The Post Office Act 1947 [Act 211] has since been repealed by the Postal Services Act 1991
[Act 465]–see subsection 50(1) of Act 465.


Stamp 63
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
4 AGREEMENT OR MEMORANDUM OF RM10.00
AGREEMENT made under hand only, and not
otherwise specially charged with any duty,
whether the same is only evidence of a contract
or obligatory on the parties from its being a
written instrument.
Exemptions
Agreement or Memorandum:
(a) for or relating to the sale of any goods,
wares or merchandise other than a
hire-purchase agreement;
(b) for service or personal employment where
the wages do not exceed RM300 per
month, and any agreement between the
master and mariners of any vessel or
boat for wages;
(c) the matter whereof is of a value of less
than RM300;
(d) for the reference of any matter to
arbitration;
(e) for the payment of interest on money
deposited in any bank or with any banker;
(f) for the repurchase of negotiable certificate
of deposit whose issue has been
authorized by Bank Negara Malaysia.
Note—An agreement for or relating to the supply
of goods on hire, whereby the goods in
consideration of periodical payments will or
may become the property of the person to whom
they are supplied, shall be charged with stamp
duty as an agreement, or, if under seal, as a
deed
4A (Deleted by Act A723).
5 ANNUITY:
Conveyance in consideration of, and See Conveyance on
instrument creating by way of sale Sale and sections 19
or gift and 22
Instrument creating by way of security The same duty as a
charge or mortgage for
the amount deemed to
be secured thereby.


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
6 APPOINTMENT of a RECEIVER under RM10.00
a mortgage
7 APPOINTMENT of a new TRUSTEE, and RM10.00
APPOINTMENT in execution of a Power, of
any property, or of any share or interest in any
property, by any instrument not being a Will
8 (Deleted by Act 274).
9 (Deleted by Act 274).
10 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION of a company RM100.00
11 (Deleted by Act 274).
12 ASSIGNMENT:
By way of security or of any security See Charge
Upon a sale or otherwise … … … See Conveyance
13 ASSURANCE … … … See Policy of
Insurance
14 (Deleted by Act 274).
15 (Deleted by Act 274).
16 (Deleted by Act 274).
17 (Deleted by Act 476).
18 (Deleted by Act 476).
19 (Deleted by Act 476).
20 BILL OF SALE:
Absolute … … … See Conveyance
By way of security … … … See Charge
21 BOND for securing the payment or See Charge
repayment of money or the transfer or retransfer
of stock


Stamp 65
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
22 BOND, COVENANT OR INSTRUMENT
of any kind whatsoever:
(1) Being the only or principal or primary
security for any annuity (except upon the
original creation thereof by way of sale
or security, and except a superannuation
annuity), or for any sum or sums of money
at stated periods, not being interest for
any principal sum secured by a duly
stamped instrument, nor rent reserved by
a lease or tack—
(a) for a definite and certain The same ad valorem
period so that the total amount duty as a charge or
to be ultimately payable can be mortgage for such
ascertained total amount.
(b) for the term of life or any RM10.00
other indefinite period—
For every RM100 and also for any
fractional part of RM100 of the
annuity or sum periodically
payable.
(2) Being a collateral or auxiliary or additional
or substituted security for any of the above
mentioned purposes where the principal
or primary instrument is duly stamped—
(a) where the total amount to One-fifth of the duty
be ultimately payable be on the principal or
ascertained primary security, but so
as not to exceed
RM10.00.
(b) in any other case— 25 sen
For every RM100 and also for any
fractional part of RM100 of the
annuity or sum periodically
payable.
(3) Being a grant or contract for payment RM10.00
of a superannuation annuity, that is to
say a deferred life annuity granted or
secured to any person in consideration of
annual premiums payable until he attains
a specified age, and so to commence on
his attaining that age—


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
(4) Being the security for payment or RM10.00
repayment of money made for the purpose
of pursuing higher education in higher
educational institutions.
(5) Being the security for securing the The same duty as a
payment for the provision of services LEASE
or facilities or to other matters or things
in connection with the lease of any
immovable property.
23 BOND, CHARGE, MORTGAGE or other RM10.00
INSTRUMENT executed by way of
INDEMNITY or of SECURITY for the due
execution of an office, or for the discharge of
liabilities, arising out of the execution thereof,
or to account for money received by virtue
thereof
Exemptions
(a) Bond executed by an officer of the
Government or of the Malayan Railway
or his surety to secure the due execution
of an office or the due accounting for
money or other payments secured by
virtue thereof.
(b) Bond for securing the refund to
Government or the Malayan Railway of
amounts overpaid to persons appointed
by Government officers or officers of
the Malayan Railway to receive their
salary or allowance when absent on leave.
(c) Bonds required to be executed under the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure
Code.
24 BOND on obtaining letters of administration RM10.00
where the estate exceeds RM50,000.00.
Exemption
Bond given by any person when the estate to
be administered does not exceed RM50,000.00
in value.
25 BOND of any kind whatsoever not specifically RM10.00
charged with any duty


Stamp 67
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
26 (Deleted by Act 274).
27 CHARGE OR MORTGAGE, AGREEMENT
FOR A CHARGE OR MORTGAGE, (including
that under the Syariah) BOND, CONVENANT,
DEBENTURE (not being a marketable security)
BILL OF SALE by way of security and
WARRANT OF ATTORNEY to confess and
enter up judgment:
(a) Being the only or principal or primary
security (other than an equitable mortgage
or an assignment of receivables or the
kind mentioned in paragraph (d)) for
the payment or repayment of money—
(i) where section 5A applies—
For an amount not exceeding RM1.00 for every
RM250,000 of the aggregate RM1,000 or fractional
loans or of the aggregate financing thereof
under the syariah in a calendar
year
For each additional RM1,000 or RM5.00
part thereof
(ii) where the loans is a foreign RM5.00 for every
currency loan or the financing RM1,000 or part
was made according to the thereof but the total
syariah in currencies other than duty payable shall not
the ringgit exceed RM500
(iii) in any other case—
For each RM1,000 or part RM5.00
thereof
(b) Being a collateral or auxiliary or One-fifth of the duty
additional or substituted security on the principal or
(other than an equitable mortgage) security but so as not
or by way of further assurance for to exceed RM10.00
the above-mentioned purpose where
the principal or primary security is
duly stamped.
(c) An equitable mortgage … … One-half of the duty
which would be
chargeable on a
mortgage for the
amount secured


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
(d) A charge or a mortgage on or an RM10.00
assignment by way of security of accounts
receivables to a bank, merchant bank or
finance company licensed under the
Banking and Financial Institutions Act
1989 or under the Islamic Banking Act
1983 or a scheduled institution as defined
under section 2 of the Banking and
Financial Institutions Act 1989, pursuant
to an agreement for discounting invoices
or hire purchase receivables
(e) Transfer, assignment or disposition Two-fifths of the duty
of any charge or mortgage, bond, which would be
covenant or debenture (not being a chargeable on a charge
marketable security) or of any money or mortgage for the
or stock secured) by any such amount transferred
instrument or by any warrant of attorney
to enter up judgment or by any judgment
And also where any further money is The same duty as a
added to the money already secured principal security for
such further money
(f) (Deleted by Act A723).
(g) Charge or mortgage executed in pursuance RM10.00
of a duly stamped agreement for the same,
on production of such agreement to the
Collector
(h) In any other case … … RM10.00
28 (Deleted by Act 274).
29 CHEQUE (unless compounded for) 15 cent
30 CONTRACT See Agreement.
31 CONTRACT NOTE:
Relating to the sale of any shares, stock or
marketable securities in companies incorporated
in Malaysia or elsewhere—
For every RM1,000 or fractional part of RM1.00
RM1,000 of the value of any shares, stock
or marketable securities


Stamp 69
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
32 CONVEYANCE, ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER
OR ABSOLUTE BILL OF SALE:
(a) On sale of any property (except For every RM100 or
stock, shares, marketable securities fractional part of
and accounts receivables or book RM100 of the amount
debts of the kind mentioned in of the money value of
paragraph (c)) the consideration or the
market value of the
property, whichever is
the greater—
(i) RM1.00 on the
first RM100,000;
(ii) RM2.00 on any
amount in excess
of RM100,000 but
not exceeding
RM500,000;
(iii) RM3.00 on any
amount in excess
of RM500,000.
(b) On sale of any stock, shares or RM3.00
marketable securities, to be computed
on the price or value thereof on the date
of transfer, whichever is the greater—
For every RM1,000 or fractional part of
RM1,000
(c) On the absolute sale of any accounts RM10.00
receivables or book debts to a bank,
merchant bank, or finance company
licensed under the Banking and Financial
Institutions Act 1989 or under the Islamic
Banking Act 1983 or a scheduled
institution as defined under section 2 of
the Banking and Financial Institutions
Act 1989, pursuant to a factoring
agreement
(d) Of any property by way of security or See Charge
any security other than a marketable
security


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
(e) Of any property as above where the
transaction is between trustees and
where—
(i) the beneficial interest in the Duty as in (a), (b),
property passes or (c)
(ii) the beneficial interest in the RM10.00
property does not pass
(f) Of any property, for the purpose of RM10.00
effectuating the appointment of a new
trustee or the retirement of a trustee
although no new trustee is appointed
(g) Of any property by way of settlement See Settlement
(h) Of any property by way of gift (whether See Gift and
by way of voluntary disposition or subsection 16(1)
otherwise)
(i) Of any kind not otherwise specially RM10.00
charged with duty
Exemptions
(a) Transfers on sale of land for the recovery
of land revenue;
(b) Transfers by endorsement—
(i) of a bill of exchange, cheque or
promissory note;
(ii) of a bill of lading, warrant for goods
or other mercantile document of
title to goods;
(iii) of a policy of insurance other than
a policy of life insurance;
(iv) of charges on rates and taxes
authorized by any written law for
the time being in force in Malaysia;
(v) of securities of the Government of
Malaysia or of any State or of the
Malayan Railway;
(c) Transfer of units of a unit trust;
(d) Transfer or assignment on sale of any
copyright, trade mark, patent or any
similar right.


Stamp 71
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
33 (Deleted by Act 274).
34 COUNTERPART OR DUPLICATE of any
instrument chargeable with duty, and in respect
of which the proper duty has been paid—
(a) If the duty with which the original The same duty as the
instrument is chargeable does not original
exceed RM10.00
(b) In any other case RM10.00
35 COVENANT:
Any separate instrument or deed of covenant RM10.00
(not being an instrument or deed chargeable
with ad valorem duty as a conveyance or
charge or mortgage) made on the sale,
charge or mortgage of any property, or of any
right or interest therein, and relating solely to
the conveyance or enjoyment of or the title to
the property sold, charged or mortgaged, or to
the production of the documents of title
relating thereto, or to all or any of the matters
aforesaid
36 DEBENTURE … … … … See Marketable
Security and Charge
37 DECLARATION of any use or trust of or RM10.00
concerning any property by any writing, not
being a will, or an instrument chargeable with
duty as a settlement
38 DEED of any kind not described in this RM10.00
Schedule
39 DISCHARGE OF CHARGE See Re-Conveyance,
etc.
40 DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP See Partnership.
41 DUPLICATE See Counterpart.
42 EQUITABLE MORTGAGE See Charge (or
Mortgage).
43 EXCHANGE. Any instrument whereby an (a) In the case
exchange of any property is effected. specified in
section 20A: see
that section;


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
(b) In any other case:
RM10.00.
44 (Deleted by Act 274).
45 FURTHER CHARGE See Charge.
46 GIFT See Subsection 16(1).
47 INDEMNITY BOND See Bond (Item 23).
48 INSURANCE See Policy of
Insurance.
49 LEASE OR AGREEMENT FOR LEASE: of
any immovable property and for securing the
payment for the provision of services or
facilities or to other matters or things in
connection with such lease:
(a) Without fine or premium when the When the Lease is for a period
average rent and other considerations Not Exceeding Exceeding
calculated for a whole year— exceeding one but three or for
one year not any indefinite
exceeding period
three years
(i) Does not exceed RM2,400 Nil Nil Nil
(ii) For every RM250 or part thereof 1.00 2.00 4.00
in excess of RM2,400
(b) In consideration of a fine or premium The same duty as for
and without rent of other considerations a conveyance for a
sum equal to the
amount of such
consideration.
(c) In consideration of a fine or premium The same duty as for
and reserving a rent or other a conveyance on sale
considerations in consideration of the
fine or premium and
a lease for the rent.
(d) Where a percentage or proportion, RM10.00
or the value of a percentage or proportion,
of the produce of the land is reserved or
payable to the lessor
Note—This duty is in addition to any
duty which may be chargeable under
(a), (b) or (c) above on account of any
specified rent, fine or premium


Stamp 73
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
(e) In pursuance of a duly stamped RM10.00
agreement for the same on production
of such agreement to the Commissioner
(f) In any other case RM10.00
Exemption
Agricultural Lease or Agreement for Agricultural
Lease for any definite term not exceeding three
years when the rent reserved does not exceed
two hundred ringgit a year.
49A LEASE OR AGREEMENT FOR LEASE The same ad valorem
UNDER THE PRINCIPLES OF AL-IJARAH duty as upon a charge
of the Syariah law for the purpose of or mortgage for such
financing or securing repayment of money. total amount.
50 LETTER OF GUARANTEE RM10.00
50A LETTER OF HYPOTHECATION RM10.00
51 LETTER OF ALLOTMENT AND LETTER RM10.00
OF RENUNCIATION or any document having
the effect of a letter of allotment of shares in
any company or proposed company or in respect
of any loan raised or proposed to be raised by
any company or proposed company
52 MARKETABLE SECURITY:
(a) Not being a security transferable by The same ad valorem
delivery, for or in respect of the money duty according to the
thereby secured nature of the security
upon a mortgage.
(b) Being a security transferable by 50 sen for every RM100
delivery or fractional part of
RM100 of the nominal
value of the security.
(c) Transfer, assignment, or disposition See Conveyance
of a marketable security
53 MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF RM100.00
A COMPANY
54 (Deleted by Act 274).
55 (Deleted by Act 274).


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
56 (Deleted by Act A723).
57 PARTNERSHIP:
(a) Instrument of . . . . RM10.00
(b) Dissolution of . . . . RM10.00
58 POLICY OF INSURANCE:
(1) (a) Policy of Sea Insurance including RM10.00
time policies or policies for covering
a vessel or her machinery or fittings
whilst under construction or repair or
on trial, whether the period exceeds
twelve months or not
(b) For policies containing a continuation RM10.00
clause, additional duty
NOTE—When a policy of sea insurance is drawn
in a set according to the custom of marine insurers
and one of the set is duly stamped, the other
or others of the set shall, unless issued or in
some manner negotiated apart from such duly
stamped policy, be exempt from duty; and, upon
proof of the loss or destruction of a duly stamped
policy forming one of a set, any other policy
of the set which has not been issued or in any
manner negotiated apart from such lost or
destroyed policy may although unstamped, be
admitted in evidence to prove the contents of
such lost or destroyed policy.
(2) FIRE POLICY—
For all policies and renewals irrespective RM10.00
of the sum insured or the term
(3) ACCIDENT POLICY and policy of RM10.00
Insurance for any payment agreed to be
made during the sickness of the insured
person or his incapacity from personal
injury, or by way of indemnity against
loss or damage of or to any property of
the insured person.


Stamp 75
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
(4) LIFE POLICY— RM10.00
Exemption
Where the sum insured does not exceed
RM5,000.
(5) RE-INSURANCE BY AN INSURANCE RM10.00
COMPANY which has granted a Policy
of Sea Insurance or a Policy of Fire
Insurance with another Company by way
of indemnity or guarantee, against the
payment on the original insurance of a
certain part of the sum insured thereby
irrespective of the sum insured or the term
(6) THIRD PARTY POLICY—
(a) Covering liability of the insured RM10.00
towards others
(b) WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION
(EMPLOYER’S LIABILITY):
Policy covering the liability of the RM10.00
insured to pay compensation to a
workman or employee in regard to
sickness or personal injury
(7) COMPREHENSIVE POLICY—
Combining any two or more of the RM10.00
following risks—fire, personal injury, or
sickness of the insured, damage, loss, theft
and third party claims
(8) Any other Insurance Policy not specifically RM10.00
provided for—
General Exemption
Letter of cover or engagement to issue a
policy of insurance:
Provided that unless such letter or
engagement bears the stamp prescribed
by this Act for such policy nothing
shall be claimable thereunder, not shall
it be available for any purpose except
to compel the delivery of the policy
therein mentioned.


Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
59 POWER OR LETTER OF ATTORNEY: RM10.00
Exemption
For the sole purpose of appointment or
authorizing any person to vote as proxy at a
meeting of a Company or Association
60 PROMISSORY NOTE:
(a) executed in favour of a bank, merchant RM10.00
bank or borrowing company in Malaysia
approved by the Minister of Finance
(b) others RM10.00
61 PROTEST OF NOTE, that is to say, any RM10.00
declaration in writing made by a Notary Public,
or other person lawfully acting as such, attesting
the dishonour of a promissory note
62 (Deleted by Act 274).
63 (Deleted by Act 274).
64 (Deleted by Act 476).
65 RECONVEYANCE OF CHARGED OR Same duty as charge
MORTGAGED PROPERTY, RE-ASSIGNMENT, itself but subject
RELEASE, DISCHARGE, SURRENDER OR to a maximum of
RENUNCIATION of any security or of the RM10.00
benefit thereof or of the money thereby
secured:
66 RELEASE OR RENUNCIATION that is to
say, any instrument whereby a person releases
any property:
(a) If on sale………… The same duty as a
conveyance on sale
(b) If by way of security…… The same duty as a
charge or mortgage
(c) If by way of gift……… The same duty as a
conveyance by way
of gift
(d) In any other case not otherwise RM10.00
specially charged with duty


Stamp 77
Item Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty
67 REVOCATION of Power or Letter of Attorney The same duty as is
payable on the Power
or Letter of Attorney
68 REVOCATION of any use or trust of any RM10.00
property by any writing not being a will.
69 SETTLEMENT being an Instrument of See section 16 and
Settlement or Agreement for a settlement item 32: Conveyance
70 (Deleted by Act 513).
71 SHARE WARRANT OR STOCK RM1.00 for every
CERTIFICATE to bearer RM100 or fractional
part of RM100 of the
nominal value of the
shares or stock
specified in the
warrant
72 (Deleted by Act 274).
73 SUBSTITUTION UNDER OR IN VIRTUE The same duty as is
OF A POWER OF ATTORNEY and any payable on the Power
such instrument cancelling or varying any or Letter of Attorney
such substitution
74 SURRENDER OF CHARGE See Reconveyance,
etc.
75 SURRENDER OF LEASE:
(a) When the duty with which The duty with
the lease is chargeable does not which such lease is
exceed RM10.00 chargeable
(b) In any other case RM10.00
76 TRANSFER See Conveyance
77 TRUST See Declaration and
Conveyance
78 TRUST RECEIPT granted on the occasion RM10.00
of a loan or overdraft on goods, if unattested
79 (Deleted by Act 274).
80 (Deleted by Act 274).


GENERAL EXEMPTIONS
[Section 35]
1. All instruments of any kind whatsoever, and all counterparts or duplicates
of such instruments, made or executed by or on behalf or in favour of a Ruler
of a State or the Government of Malaysia or of any State or the Malayan
Railway, where, but for this exemption, the Ruler or the Government or the
Malayan Railway would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such
instrument.
The above exemption does not extend to any instrument or writing signed
or executed by any officer as Official Administrator (or, in the case of Sabah,
as Administrator General) or Public Trustee or by a receiver appointed by the
Court; or to any instrument rendered necessary by any written law or order of
Court; or to a sale made for the recovery of an arrear of revenue or in satisfaction
of a decree or order of Court.
2. Any grant or lease made on behalf of the Government by virtue of the
National Land Code [Act 56 of 1965] or the National Land Code (Penang and
Malacca Titles) Act 1963 [Act 518] or the Land Ordinance of Sabah [Sabah
Cap.68] or the Land Ordinance of Sarawak [Sarawak Cap.81].
3. Any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either absolutely
or by way of charge or otherwise, of any ship or vessel or any part, interest,
share or property of or in any ship or vessel registered or licensed under the
Merchant Shipping Ordinance 1952 [Ord. 70 of 1952] or under any law for the
time being in force in any part of Malaysia.
4. Any instrument relating exclusively to immovable property situate out of
Malaysia or relating exclusively to things done or to be done out of Malaysia.
5. All instruments relating solely to the business of any society registered
under any written law relating to co-operative societies, and executed by an
officer or member of such society, the duty on which would, but for the
exemption hereby granted, be payable by such officer or member.
6. An instrument executed pursuant to a scheme of financing approved by the
Central Bank or the Securities Commission as a scheme which is in accordance
with the principles of Syariah, where such instrument is an additional instrument
strictly required for the purpose of compliance with those principles but which
will not be required for any other schemes of financing.
6. (Deleted by Act A723).
7. (Deleted by Act A723).
8. (Deleted by Act A723).
9. (Deleted by Act A723).


Stamp 79
SECOND SCHEDULE
[Section 7]
PERSONS REQUIRED TO CANCEL ADHESIVE STAMPS
Item Nature of Instrument and the Item Persons required to cancel
Number thereto in First Schedule the adhesive stamp
1 AGREEMENT—No. 4 The person by whom the
instrument is first executed
1A AFFIDAVIT, STATUTORY The Commissioner for Oaths
DECLARATION, etc. —No. 2
2 (Deleted by Act 476).
3 (Deleted by Act 476).
4 (Deleted by Act 274).
5 CHEQUE (UNLESS COMPOUNDED See Bill of Exchange
FOR)—No. 29
6 CONTRACT NOTE—No. 31 The person by whom the note
is executed
6A DECLARATION of any use or Manager or Trust Executive
trust of or concerning any of Amanah Raya Bhd.
property by any writing, not being
a will, or an instrument
chargeable with duty as a
settlement executed with Amanah
Raya Bhd.—No. 37
7 (Deleted by Act 274).
8 LETTER OF ALLOTMENT— The person by whom the
No. 51 letter is signed
9 LETTER OF RENUNCIATION— The person in whose favour
No. 51 the letter is executed
10 (Deleted by Act 274).
11 (Deleted by Act 274).
12 POLICY OF INSURANCE when The first holder in Malaysia
issued out of Malaysia— No. 58
13 (Deleted by Act 274).


Item Nature of Instrument and the Item Persons required to cancel
Number thereto in First Schedule the adhesive stamp
14 PROMISSORY NOTE when drawn The first holder in Malaysia
or made out Malaysia—No. 60
15 PROTEST OF NOTE—No. 61 The Notary
16 (Deleted by Act 274).
17 (Deleted by Act 274).
18 REVOCATION OF POWER OF The person by whom the
ATTORNEY—No. 67 instrument is executed
19 SECURITY BOND furnished to the An immigration officer
Director General of Immigration in
connection with the grant of a
Professional Visit Pass for an Artiste,
a Social Visit Pass and a Work
Permit Pass—No. 25
20 STUDENT LOAN AGREEMENT The lender
for the purpose of pursuing higher
education in colleges or universities
—No. 22
21 (Deleted by Act A723).


Stamp 81
THIRD SCHEDULE
[Section 33]
DUTY BY WHOM PAYABLE
Item Nature of Instrument and the Item Person liable to pay
Number thereto in First Schedule Duty
1 AGREEMENT OR MEMORANDUM The person by whom the
OF AGREEMENT—No. 4 instrument is first executed
2 BOND—Nos. 21, 22, 23 and 25 The obligor or other person
giving the security
3 CHARGE OR MORTGAGE— The chargor, mortgagor or
No. 27 obligor
4 CONTRACT—No. 30 The person by whom the
instrument is first executed
4A CONTRACT NOTE—No. 31 The person on whose
account the purchase or sale
is made
5 CONVEYANCE—No. 32 The grantee or transferee
6 (Deleted by Act 274).
7 Exchange—No. 43 The parties in equal shares
8 LEASE OR AGREEMENT FOR
LEASE—No. 49:
(a) Lease or agreement The lessee
(b) Counterpart The lessor
9 (Deleted by Act A723).
10 RE-CONVEYANCE—No. 65 The transferee or assignee
or the person redeeming the
security


FOURTH SCHEDULE
[Section 83]
REPEAL
No. Title Extent of Repeal
F.M.S. Cap. 135 The Stamp Enactment The whole
Johore Enactment The Stamp Enactment The whole
No. 137
Kedah Enactment Enactment No. 114 (Stamps) The whole in so far
No. 114 as it relates to stamp
duties
Kelantan The Stamp Enactment 1937 The whole
Enactment No. 7 of
Trengganu The Stamps Enactment The whole in so far
Enactment No. 19 as it relates to stamp
of 1356 duties
S.S. Cap. 228 The Stamp Ordinance The whole
B.M.A. The Stamps Proclamation The whole
Proclamation
No. 37
B.M.A. The Powers of Attorney The whole
Proclamation (Stamping) Proclamation
No. 59
B.M.A. The Stamp Duties The whole
Proclamation Proclamation
No. 66
NOTE—The Stamp Ordinance of Sabah [Sabah Cap. 137] (except section 83), the Stamp Ordinance
of Sarawak [Sarawak Cap. 32] and the Stamp (Unnumbered Shares) Act 1962 [Act 26/62] were
repealed by the Stamp (Amendment and Extension) Act 1989 [Act A723].


Stamp 83
FIFTH SCHEDULE
[Subsection 8(1)]
List of instruments on which duty is payable by means of a postal franking
machine.
1–6. (Deleted by P.U. (A) 472/1991)
7. (Deleted by Act 513)
8. Transfer of shares in public companies listed on the Kuala Lumpur Stock
Exchange.
9. Hire-Purchase Agreement and guarantee thereto.


SIXTH SCHEDULE
[Subsection 15A(3)]
PROVISIONS RELATING TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
PROVISIONS FOR DETERMINING AMOUNT OF CAPITAL HELD
THROUGH OTHER COMPANIES
1. Where, in the case of a number of companies, the first directly owns issued
share capital of the second and the second directly owns issued share capital
of the third, then, for the purposes of this Schedule, the first shall be deemed
to own issued share capital of the third through the second, and, if the third
directly owns issued share capital of a fourth, the first shall be deemed to own
issued share capital of the fourth through the second and the third, and the
second shall be deemed to own issued share capital of the fourth through the
third, and so on.
2. In this Schedule—
(a) any number of companies of which the first directly owns issued share
capital of the second and the second directly owns issued share capital
of the third and so on, and, if they are more than three, any three or
more of them, are referred to as a “series”;
(b) in any series—
(i) that company which owns issued share capital of another through
the remainder is referred to as “the first owner”;
(ii) that other company the issued share capital of which is so owned
is referred to as “the last owned company”;
(iii) the remainder, if one only, is referred to as an “intermediary”
or, if more than one, as “a chain of intermediaries”;
(c) a company in a series which directly owns issued share capital of
another company in the series is referred to as an “owner”;
(d) any two companies in a series of which one owns issued share capital
of the other directly, and not through one or more of the other companies
in the series, are referred to as being directly related to one another.
3. Where every owner in a series owns the whole of the issued share capital
of the company to which it is directly related, the first owner shall be deemed
to own through the intermediary or chain of intermediaries the whole of the
issued share capital of the last owned company.
4. Where one of the owners in a series owns a fraction of the issued share
capital of the company to which it is directly related, and every other owner
in the series owns the whole of the issued share capital of the company to which
it is directly related, the first owner shall be deemed to own that fraction of
the issued share capital of the last owned company through the intermediary
or chain of intermediaries.


Stamp 85
5. Where—
(a) each of two or more of the owners in a series owns a fraction, and
every other owner in the series owns the whole, of the issued share
capital of the company to which it is directly related; or
(b) every owner in a series owns a fraction of the issued share capital of
the company to which it is directly related,
the first owner shall be deemed to own through the intermediary or chain of
intermediaries such fraction of the issued share capital of the last owned company
as results from the multiplication of those fractions.
6. Where the first owner in any series owns a fraction of the issued share
capital of the last owned company in that series through the intermediary or
chain of intermediaries in that series, and also owns another fraction or other
fractions of the issued share capital of the last owned company, either—
(a) directly;
(b) through an intermediary or intermediaries which is not a member or
are not members of that series;
(c) through a chain or chains of intermediaries of which one or some or
all are not in that series; or
(d) in a case where the series consists of more than three companies,
through an intermediary or intermediaries which is a member or are
members of the series, or through a chain or chains of intermediaries
consisting of some but not all of the companies of which the chain
of intermediaries in the series consists,
then, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of the issued share capital of
the last owned company owned by the first owner, all those fractions shall be
aggregated and the first owner shall be deemed to own the sum of those
fractions.


Act 378
STAMP ACT 1949
LIST OF AMENDMENTS
Amending law Short title In force from
F.M. Ord. 70/1950 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 11-12-1950
F.M. Ord. 15/1953 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 30-04-1953
F.M. Ord. 67/1953 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 24-12-1953
L.N. 576/1954 Notification–Amendment of First 01-01-1955
Schedule
L.N. 254/1955 Notification–Amendment of First 04-05-1955
Schedule
F.M. Ord. 23/1955 Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance 05-12-1949
1955 and
15-06-1955
L.N. 113/1956 Minister of Finance Order 1956– 02-04-1956
s 4
L.N. 332/1958 Federal Constitution (Modification 13-11-1958
of Laws) (Ordinance and
Proclamations) Order 1958
Act 91 Courts of Judicature Act 1964 16-09-1963
Singapore Act Republic of Singapore 09-08-1965
9/1965 Independence Act 1965
Act 79/1965 Companies Act 1965 – First 15-04-1966
Schedule
Act 5/1967 Stamp Duty (Special Provisions) 01-04-1967
(Malaysia) Act 1967


Stamp 87
Amending law Short title In force from
Act 60/1967 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1967 All provisions
other than section
2 and the First Schedule (except
the amendment
of section 80 of
F.M. Ordinance
No. 59 of 1949)
01-04 1967;
Section 2 and the
First Schedule
(except as
aforesaid)
30-09-1967
P.U. (B) 391/1973 Resolution of Dewan Rakyat 31-08-1973
amending First Schedule
P.U. (B) 392/1973 Resolution of Dewan Negara 31-08-1973
amending First Schedule
Act A15 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1969 Not yet
inforce
Act A160 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1973 29-02-1973
Act A224 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1974 29-02-1974
Act A408 Stamp (Amendment) Act 1977 02-09-1977
Act 241 Finance Act 1981 Chapter V;
01-01-1981
P.U. (A) 58/1982 Stamp Duty (Amendment) 05-03-1982
Order 1982
Act 274 Finance (No. 2) Act 1982 Chapter IV;
01-01-1983
Act 293 Finance Act 1983 Chapter V;
01-01-1984
Act 309 Finance Act 1984 Chapter V;
01-01-1985
Act A587 National Land Code 25-03-1985
(Amendment) Act 1984
Act A723 Stamp (Amendment and 01-10-1989;
Extension) Act 1989 paragraph 5(b):
01-01-1990
Act 421 Finance (No. 2) Act 1990 Chapter V;
01-01-1990


Amending law Short title In force from
P.U. (A) 470/1990 Revision of Laws (Stamp Act) 02-01-1990
Order 1990
P.U. (A) 40/1991 Stamp Duty (Amendment) 01-02-1991
Order 1991
P.U. (A) 472/1991 Stamp Duty (Amendment) 01-01-1992
(No. 2) Order 1991
Act 476 Finance Act 1992 Chapter VI;
01-01-1992
Act 497 Finance Act 1993 Chapter III;
01-01-1993
Act 513 Finance Act 1994 Chapter IV;
01-01-1994
Act 531 Finance Act 1995 Chapter IV;
01-01-1995
Act 544 Finance Act 1996 Chapter V;
01-01-1996
except s. 25:
01-07-1995
Act 578 Finance Act 1998 Chapter V;
01-01-1998
Act 600 Finance Act 2000 Chapter IV;
30-10-1999;
section 20;
16-06-2000;
section 21
Act 608 Finance (No. 2) Act 2000 Chapter V;
01-01-2001
P.U. (A) 511/2000 Stamp Duty (Amendment) 01-01-2001
Order 2000
Act 619 Finance Act 2002 Chapter IV;
01-01-2002
Act 624 Finance (No. 2) Act 2002 Chapter IV;
01-01-2003
Act 639 Finance Act 2004 Chapter V;
11-09-2004


Stamp 89
Act 378
STAMP ACT 1949
LIST OF SECTIONS AMENDED
Section Amending authority In force from
2 L.N. 332/1958 13-11-1958
Act 79/1965 15-04-1966
Act 60/1967 30-09-1967
Act 293 01-01-1984
Act 309 01-01-1985
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 476 01-01-1992
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 608 01-01-2001
3 Act A723 01-10-1989
3A Act 60/1967 30-09-1967
4 Act 309 01-01-1985
5A Act 241 01-01-1981
Act A723 01-10-1989
7 F.M. Ord. 70/1950 11-12-1950
F.M. Ord. 23/1955 05-12-1949
L.N. 332/1958 13-11-1958
Act A723 01-10-1989;
01-01-1990
Act 608 01-01-2001
8 Act 60/1967 30-09-1967
Act A408 02-09-197
9 F.M. Ord. 70/1950 11-12-1950
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 497 01-01-1993
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 608 01-01-2001
Act 619 01-01-2002
Act 624 01-01-2003


Section Amending authority In force from
12 Act 60/1967 30-09-1967
Act 497 01-01-1993
12A Act 60/1967 01-04-1967
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 497 01-01-1993
13 Act A723 01-10-1989
14A Act A723 01-10-1989
15 F.M. Ord. 15/1953 30-04-1953
Act 79/1965 15-04-1966
Act 293 01-01-1984
Act A723 01-10-1989
15A Act A723 01-10-1989
16 Act 60/1967 30-09-1967
Act 274 01-01-1983
17 Act A723 01-10-1989
19 Act 309 01-01-1985
20 Act 309 01-01-1985
20A Act 274 01-01-1983
20B Act 309 01-01-1985
Act 531 01-01-1995
21 F.M. Ord. 70/1950 11-12-1950
Act 309 01-01-1985
Act A723 01-10-1989
27 Act A723 01-10-1989
29 Act 309 01-01-1985
Act A723 01-10-1989
29A Act 309 01-01-1985
Act A723 01-10-1989
30 Act A723 01-10-1989
32A Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 608 01-01-2001
33 F.M. Ord. 67/1953 24-12-1953
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 608 01-01-2001


Stamp 91
Section Amending authority In force from
34 Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 476 01-01-1992
36 Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 544 01-01-1996
38A Act 619 01-01-2002
39 Act 619 01-01-2002
40 Act A723 01-10-1989
42 Act 476 01-01-1992
43 Act 476 01-01-1992
Act A723 01-10-1989
44 Act 476 01-01-1992
Act A723 01-10-1989
45 Act 476 01-01-1992
46 Act A723 01-10-1989
47 Act 476 01-01-1992
Act A723 01-10-1989
47A Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 608 01-01-2001
Act 619 01-01-2002
Act 624 01-01-2003
48 Act A723 01-10-1989
49 Act A723 01-10-1989
51 Act A723 01-10-1989
52 Act 60/1967 30-09-1967
Act A723 01-10-1989
53 Act A723 01-10-1989
54 Act 476 01-01-1992
55 Act 578 01-01-1998
57 Act A723 01-10-1989
58 Act A723 01-10-1989


Section Amending authority In force from
59 Act A723 01-10-1989
59A Act A723 01-10-1989
60 Act A723 01-10-1989
61 Act A723 01-10-1989
62 Act 476 01-01-1992
Act A723 01-10-1989
63 Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 476 01-01-1992
64 Act A723 01-10-1989
65 Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 476 01-01-1992
66 Act A723 01-10-1989
67 Act A723 01-10-1989
68 Act A723 01-10-1989
69 Act A723 01-10-1989
70 Act A723 01-10-1989
71 Act A723 01-10-1989
72 Act A723 01-10-1989
74 Act A723 01-10-1989
75 Act A723 01-10-1989
80 L.N. 332/1958 13-11-1958
Act 60/1967 01-04-1967
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 608 01-01-2001
82 L.N. 332/1958 13-11-1958
Act A723 01-10-1989
First Schedule F.M. Ord. 70/1950 11-12-1950
L.N. 576/1954 01-01-1955
L.N. 254/1955 04-05-1955
F.M. Ord. 23/1955 15-06-1955
L.N. 332/1958 13-11-1958
Act 79/1965 15-04-1966


Stamp 93
Section Amending authority In force from
P.U. (B) 391/1973 31-08-1973
P.U. (B) 392/1973 31-08-1973
Act A15 Not yet inforce
Act A160 29-02-1973
Act 274 01-01-1983
Act 293 01-01-1984
Act 309 01-01-1985
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 421 01-01-1990
P.U. (A) 470/1990 02-01-1990
Act 476 01-01-1992
Act 497 01-01-1993
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 544 01-07-1995
Act 600 30-10-1999
Act 608 01-01-2001
Act 619 01-01-2002
Act 624 01-01-2003
Act 639 11-09-2004
Second Schedule Act 274 01-01-1983
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 476 01-01-1992
Act 513 01-01-1994
Act 600 16-06-2000
P.U. (A) 511/2000 01-01-2001
Third Schedule F.M. Ord. 67/1953 24-12-1953
Act A723 01-10-1989
Act 274 01-01-1983
Fifth Schedule Act A408 02-09-1977
P.U. (A) 58/1982 05-03-1982
P.U. (A) 40/1991 01-02-1991
P.U. (A) 472/1991 01-01-1992
Act 513 01-01-1994
Sixth Schedule Act A723 01-10-1989
DICETAK OLEH
PERCETAKAN NASIONAL MALAYSIA BERHAD,
KUALA LUMPUR
BAGI PIHAK DAN DENGAN PERINTAH KERAJAAN MALAYSIA


